https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/3s4q38/eli5_given_enough_time_could_other_animals_such/
-------------------------------------------------------------

jump to content
comments
related

search
this post was submitted on 09 Nov 2015
1,350 points (89% upvoted)
shortlink:  
https://redd.it/3s4q38

UNSUBSCRIBE
6,706,758 readers
7,245 
request an explanation
This is for concepts you'd like to understand better; not for simple one word answers, walkthroughs, or personal problems.
LI5 means friendly, simplified and layman-accessible explanations.
Not responses aimed at literal five year olds (which can be patronizing).
report spam post or comment
important information
Read the rules before commenting or submitting.
Search before submitting with keywords from your topic. The search box is in the upper right corner of the subreddit. You can also refer to our list of the most popular FAQ's here
Please be neutral in your explanations, and note your personal bias in controversial topics.
Direct replies to the original post (aka "top-level comments") are for serious responses only. Jokes, anecdotes, and low effort explanations, are not permitted and subject to removal.
Don't post just to express an opinion or argue a point of view.
After receiving an adequate explanation, OP should mark the post Explained. Explained posts are still open to discussion!

explained unexplained reset
created by bossgalagaa community for 4 years

message the moderators
ELI5: Given enough time, could other animals, such as cats or dogs evolve to a similar intelligence level to humans?
submitted 5 hours ago by letsgetblitzed
sorted by: best

save
[–]palcatraz 1338 points 5 hours ago 
Intelligence is not the end goal of evolution. Evolution has no goals. Natural selection just leads to a species that will survive, and there are lots of different survival strategies out there beyond intelligence.
Could another species select for intelligence if that makes them more likely to survive? Sure. But they could be selecting for loads of different things. And they'd have to compete with us. We were successful because our intelligence filled a niche that was empty up until that time. But that niche is now filled, which makes it much harder for that to be a successful mutation. Maybe if humans were out of the picture somehow.
Then even if you had all the time in the universe and no humans to compete with, it still comes down to random chance. Mutations are not directed. They just happen. You'd have to have an animal who just happens to have an mutation that leads to more intelligence in an environment that rewards that mutation. That is a lot of random chance.
 
[–]Ulukai 295 points 4 hours ago 
Indeed - though I would also add / argue that what we perceive as classically high "human" levels of intelligence is probably less to do with raw intelligence as such, and rather our ability to pass on knowledge more successfully than other species. What makes us actually reach our intellectual potential (or thereabouts) is having everything set up around us in a way as to optimise learning. Things like language, having an extended childhood centered around learning, a civilisation allowing for specialisation within professions and roles, etc.
Many other animals display really impressive intellects (other great apes, cetaceans, even crows, etc), often passing tests of intelligence such as the mirror test (amongst other impressive feats). Certainly things to rival human
So what I'm trying to say is that other species are really not that far off from us in terms of raw intelligence, but rather lack whatever happy coincidence has led us to the levels of civilisation and global dominance we currently have. Essentially we've been able to have / enjoy memetic evolution for a while.
 
[–]Dynamaxion 167 points 2 hours ago 
I feel like if I was just dropped off in the middle of the wilderness before I learned language or anything like that, and never met anyone, I wouldn't really figure much out. I'd probably go my whole life without learning how to make fire or anything like that. Probably would die of eating some poisonous berry within a week.
 
[–]bbbberlin 85 points an hour ago 
While scientific literature (of an acceptable standard) on feral children is basically scarce and almost non-existent, theories of childhood development (and cases of extreme neglect) point to a critical development period for children, where if they are not taught language, and how to even walk properly by a certain age, they are unlikely to ever recover completely.
 
[–]illTakeCreddit 61 points an hour ago 
Psh, yea right. I saw the Jungle Book. Works out just fine.
 
[–]theoneandonlymd 54 points 55 minutes ago 
He said not taught language. Bagheera took care of that. Too bad they taught him English so deep in India.
 
[–]CourageousKoala 10 points 32 minutes ago 
Together with Hindi, English is the second official language of India.
 
[–]dunemafia [score hidden] 18 minutes ago 
Bagheera was the Minister for Education, no doubt.
 
[–]Ghost51 [score hidden] 9 minutes ago 
Pretty much, the literate are made to learn English to a decent standard.
 
[–]sidarape [score hidden] 5 minutes ago 
I actually thought that English was the most used languages but TIL.
 
[–]procrastiNationUnite -1 points 31 minutes ago 
nothing like a good white washing to start kids young believing that English is the only language worth speaking :P
 
[–]Pastorcox [score hidden] 22 minutes ago 
Well to be technically correct, it is. If you wish to do business with powerful and rich people, speaking their language and knowing there customs is the way to go. Most of the worlds rich and powerful speak English ergo if you're intelligent you will learn the language
 
[–]Pastorcox [score hidden] 21 minutes ago 
IE Asian people particularly in China or talk to smile, laugh etc. so they can do better business and have better networking with their American counterparts
 
[–]HeroDanny 1 point an hour ago 
hahahahahha!!!
 
[–]thatsnotirrelephant 16 points 58 minutes ago 
There is definitely a perfect example of this in annals of child psychology, her name was Genie.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genie_(feral_child)
 
[–]Aquila13 3 points 37 minutes ago 
Her name is Genie. Just want to point out that I'm pretty sure she's still alive.
 
[–]Alice_Ex [score hidden] a minute ago 
Yup, and her life hasn't really improved at all according to the wiki entry
 
[–]Jazzlefresh22 2 points an hour ago 
How did the first humans on earth survive?
 
[–]ZZBC 22 points an hour ago 
They weren't alone. Lack of human contact is extremely damaging and can be fatal. Early humans had each other.
 
[–]iRelativism [score hidden] 10 minutes ago 
There was a first a human, wasn't there? We come from one ancestor, no? Wouldn't the first human be the loneliest human in history?
 
[–]meddlingbarista 9 points an hour ago 
By walking, communicating, and learning/teaching slightly better than the other guy.
 
[–]KudagFirefist 6 points an hour ago 
Under the care of their slightly-less-than-human parents.
 
[–]droppingknowledge1 4 points an hour ago 
Just because a modern human dropped in the jungle as a baby would struggle, mankind itself didn't just appear out of nowhere, it came across on a slow general evolution with a more rudimentary support structure in place.
 
[–]Sir-Knightly-Duty 3 points an hour ago* 
From their parents.
Edit: thought you said "learn how to survive".
 
[–]eyeclaudius [score hidden] 17 minutes ago 
Presumable the first modern humans had parents that raised them and looked after them. There wasn't really a sharp dividing line between nonhuman and human and they probably didn't look much different from their immediate ancestors. It's not like mom & dad were homo habilis and their kid looked like a child sitcom actor.
 
[–]ur2l8 1 point an hour ago 
With their parents, and their parents, and their parents, and so on until you go back to lesser life forms. All you need to do is reproduce and the next generation moves forward.
 
[–]jblo -1 points an hour ago 
Sheer and utter luck. Perhaps thousands of generations in a food rich environment with decent weather and very few, if any predators/outside threats.
 
[–]cbop 42 points 2 hours ago 
That's probably true. Humans weren't meant to survive alone, we've pretty much always been tribal. Helps for hunting, gathering, building, protection, etc.
 
[–]heartbreak_kidder 4 points 37 minutes ago 
Ok, so lets say we drop 20-30 kids in the woods...
 
[–]pseudomichael [score hidden] 25 minutes ago 
If only there were an avalanche of (post)-apocalyptic fiction and film about a bunch of teens in a dystopian world. Maybe we could have several of these every single year?
Imagine that world...
Ah well...
 
[–]Orapac4142 [score hidden] 26 minutes ago 
I think there are a few movies and books of that.
Sometimes its woods, sometimes its an island, hell even once it was just asian kids, but they all end up with the kids murdering the shit out of each other.
 
[–]heartbreak_kidder [score hidden] 23 minutes ago 
i was thinking younger. like toddlers...
 
[–]One_more_page [score hidden] 18 minutes ago 
Isn't that the plot of the Rugrats movie? I distinctly remember wilderness and singing monkeys.
 
[–]Orapac4142 [score hidden] 10 minutes ago 
Toddlers are fucking stupid, they'd probably kill them selves eating mouthfuls of dirt.
The thing that animals have is a much faster maturation of their young. Some animal offspring and walk run and jump like what, within a few hours or even less after being born, and are able to learn from their parents about how to stay alive, like "avoid this animal, dont eat those berries etc" while Humans take much much longer.
Then we still do stupid shit that tends to be incompatible with being alive.
 
[–]SteelyPrawns 31 points 2 hours ago 
I read "berry" as "bear" and thought "there's no way there are poisonous bears . . ."
 
[–]Souphu 41 points an hour ago 
Maybe in Australia
 
[–]gsfgf 17 points an hour ago 
Drop bears have chlamydia, so they're sort of like poisonous bears
 
[–]SpareLiver 4 points an hour ago 
Wouldn't that be venomous, not poisonous?
 
[–]sneakylemons 12 points 54 minutes ago 
Depends on who's pitching and who's catching
 
[–]szawe 1 point 54 minutes ago 
Close enough for me.
 
[–]JadedJohnson 1 point an hour ago 
Polar Bears livers are poisonious.... to much Vit-A.
 
[–]MyClitBiggerThanUrD 3 points an hour ago 
There are no bears in Australia. Except Drop bears, but even though they are lethal they aren't poisonous.
 
[–]-Mountain-King- [score hidden] 6 minutes ago 
Of course they are. Everything in Australia is poisonous.
 
[–]denialerror 7 points an hour ago 
Eating Polar Bear liver is potentially fatal, so I guess that counts as a poisonous bear.
 
[–]Kanekesoofango 3 points an hour ago 
I'm sure they got one in Australia.
 
[–]wrosecrans 1 point an hour ago 
Well, certainly if the bears eat anything in Australia, the bear meat will probably be poison for humans.
 
[–]Ghitzo 2 points an hour ago 
*venomous
 
[–]ThunderOrb 2 points an hour ago 
No, poisonous can also work. He didn't say anything about getting bitten. If he contracts something from eating the bear, the bear is poisonous.
 
[–]SJHillman 2 points an hour ago 
Polar bear livers contain so much vitamin A that they can cause you to overdose if you eat it (Hypervitaminosis). That's sort of poisonous.
 
[–]ImLagging 1 point an hour ago 
While not poisonous, bear meat does have parasites which can lead to Trichinosis, which is not fun. Or so I've heard.
 
[–]xxxStumpyGxxx 1 point 49 minutes ago 
well, technically, if you eat bear liver you can get a lethal dose of vitamin A. So... poisonous bears.
 
[–]ShockinglyAccurate 4 points an hour ago 
I don't even know if this will mean anything to you, but this comment sounds incredibly like something Karl Pilkington might say.
 
[–]TreKs 3 points an hour ago 
Hi there! Looking into sociology for my degree, if you're interested in this look up Genie the feral child for some interesting reading.
Edit: autocorrect wins this round.
 
[–]Mmedical 3 points an hour ago 
I looked up the Wikipedia entry on Genie, got through the first section and immediately became depressed...thanks? Really a horrific story.
 
[–]palcatraz 2 points an hour ago 
Genie is such an incredibly sad case. Pretty much all the cases of feral children are, but hers is heart wrenching.
 
[–]laodaron 4 points an hour ago 
So, no, then. Your response to the above poster indicates that I specifically do not want to read about Genie the feral child.
 
[–]SJHillman 4 points an hour ago 
Instead of reading, would you rather dream of Jeannie, the feral genie?
 
[–]SidewaysInfinity [score hidden] 29 minutes ago 
Feral genies would be alternately terrifying and the impetus for a lot more people to be interested in catching strays
 
[–]MyClitBiggerThanUrD 1 point an hour ago 
Yeah it is kind of depressing but it has sort of an happy ending as reportedly (anonymous source of ABC News) she still lived a simple but happy life as a warden of California as of the year 2000 and it seems like she is still alive.
 
[–]Tlblein [score hidden] 28 minutes ago 
According to the Wikipedia page in 2008 she was in a mental ward in social isolation and lost her ability to speak.
Hopefully that's not the case.
 
[–]HighOnGoofballs [score hidden] 24 minutes ago 
There's a documentary about this, it's called Nell
 
[–]bogas04 [score hidden] 19 minutes ago 
I feel like if I was just dropped off in the middle of the wilderness before I learned language or anything like that, and never met anyone, I wouldn't really figure much out. I'd probably go my whole life without learning how to make fire or anything like that. Probably would die of eating some poisonous berry within a week.
Yup, pretty much. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fWUKyRSiiPg
 
[–]jimenycr1cket -5 points 2 hours ago* 
To be fair, animals that you would think have this situation have not only elders of the species to learn from, but they also have instincts for their natural environment.
 
[–]Zeromone 16 points an hour ago 
That was almost a sentence!
 
[–]MyClitBiggerThanUrD 10 points an hour ago 
Be nice. He had no elders so he had to go by his instincts.
 
[–]kryptonianCodeMonkey 3 points an hour ago 
I don't think that's what he said, but.... fuck I don't know. Maybe he did.
 
[–]Aubergine420 18 points an hour ago 
Octopus are a really great example. They are some of the brightest species, but when an octopus mom makes babies, she just lays thousands of eggs and dies protecting them. Baby octopus learn all by themselves, and they are still able to learn how to open a fuckin peanut butter jar from the inside.
 
[–]joinedforthis 12 points an hour ago 
I for one welcome our eight-legged jar-bound overlords
 
[–]akohlsmith 2 points 32 minutes ago 
That's just it... they're not jar-bound.
 
[–]An_Evil_Accountant 1 point 40 minutes ago 
I vaguely remember hearing/reading something about octopus teaching each other things...but I'm not in the position to go googling currently.
 
[–]Aubergine420 [score hidden] 12 minutes ago 
It's actually starting, scientist studying octopuses start to see some of them gathering, but they have been lonely creatures for a long time now.
 
[–]ScientificallyStupid 22 points 2 hours ago 
Well, humans use 3x as much of their energy on the maintenance of the brain compared to their closest competitor (the chimpanzee) so, we do have a very big advantage in raw intelligence.
 
[–]ScrithWire 15 points 2 hours ago 
I think it might be better to say "processing power" instead of "intelligence," in this sense.
 
[–]2074red2074 3 points an hour ago 
Isn't that the same thing?
 
[–]disgruntled_oranges 13 points an hour ago 
I wouldn't say so. My computer can do calculations thousands of times faster than I can, but I'm still more intelligent than it is.
 
[–]allofthe11 15 points an hour ago 
That's what it wants you to believe anywway
 
[–]zwaetschgge 2 points an hour ago 
Computers cannot write code.
 
[–]greentheorpy 6 points 49 minutes ago 
And neither can a lot of humans.
 
[–]SidewaysInfinity [score hidden] 28 minutes ago 
But we can learn to. A computer can still only do the things it's programmed to do. It can't truly innovate (yet at least)
 
[–]Orapac4142 [score hidden] 23 minutes ago 
Yet.
 
[–]Cbrlater [score hidden] 13 minutes ago 
Depends what you mean by write code.
There are plenty of systems that use adaptive algorithms to change their behaviour. These are essentially self programming
 
[–]archonsolarsaila 0 points 40 minutes ago 
They definitely can. Functional languages, optimising and JIT compilers and neural networks are all part of that.
They can't independently decide on a problem to write code FOR, but once you specify a problem's output they can certainly write better code than a human for it.
 
[–]pocketknifeMT 7 points an hour ago 
It's almost impossible to get an apples to apples comparison...or even a fruit to fruit comparison here.
Your brain is doing vastly complex calculations all the time...it's just not traditional number crunching. The processing power your brain is using just for vision is truly impressive....and you can run it on a glass of water and sandwich.
Just making a computer than can play catch is a several high power server rack endeavor than is considered cutting edge research.
 
[–]kryptonianCodeMonkey 4 points an hour ago 
and you can run it on a glass of water and sandwich.
This is reddit, dude. I think you meant "Red Bull and jerky"
 
[–]2074red2074 2 points 56 minutes ago 
You'd be surprised what all you actually process at once. You ever thought about how complicated catching a ball is?
 
[–]ffp12 1 point 51 minutes ago 
Your brain is still a lot more powerful. For only 20 Watts it can pump around 80 Peta-flops, and that is only counting from the humble point of view of a neural network simulator.
 
loading...
[–]zordac 0 points an hour ago 
No. I can have the biggest baddest computer on the block but that does not mean it is the most intelligent computer on the block. My neighbor's computer that is 10 years old may have a much better artificial intelligence running on it.
A good example from the animal kingdom is the Crow. Crows are extremely intelligent. Crows can figure out complicated puzzles, they can recognize individual human faces, are able to communicate, and some research says they can understand analogies.
But, crows do not have much processing power. Their brain is roughly the size of a human thumb. It is huge for their body size and weight but it is still a small computer.
 
[–]SquishyDelishy 1 point an hour ago 
Processing power is more closely related to the ratio of brain/body size. Humans have a VERY high ratio compared to other species.
 
[–]No_your_wrong 1 point 53 minutes ago* 
Basically,
Linux on an old shitty Intel Pentium computer
>
Windows (version doesn't matter) on some modern badass supercomputer with a 10/10 × "over 9000" CPU
?
 
[–]2074red2074 1 point 51 minutes ago 
You shouldn't look only at size though. Sheep brains are much larger, but also smoother. Crows, if you assume that they have the same level of wrinkling as us, aren't really doing a lot. I mean humans have the capacity to convey ideas to each other, to visually display those ideas so that they can be conveyed to future people, we create art with literal and symbolic meaning, etc. And crows can use some basic tools, learn to do a certain thing when you make a certain noise, maybe even understand like fifty words. Big deal.
 
[–]No_your_wrong [score hidden] 18 minutes ago 
Basically,
Linux on an old shitty Intel Pentium computer
>
Windows (version doesn't matter) on some modern badass supercomputer with a 10/10 × "over 9000" CPU
 
[–]seruko 0 points an hour ago 
Humans are not necessarily more intelligent than chimpanzees. Chimpanzees tend to beat humans in some kinds of game theory challenges.
 
[–]theodinspire 3 points an hour ago 
But not others: they never seem to grasp challenge where allowing a benefit for another at the expense of a delayed benefit to ourselves for the benefit of an increased award a short time later for themselves.
i.e. If given the choice of taking a treat for themselves and giving the treat to a peer, they always take the treat for themselves even if doing the latter would mean they get double the treat after the peer takes theirs.
Perhaps humans are just mostly intelligent and we have some preprogrammed behaviors that just seem intelligent in our standard frame of reference. (I also think that this is evidenced in economic data: people are terrible at the long term delay of rewards.)
 
[–]prettydamnbest 1 point 55 minutes ago 
Which human children do as well. That's not something that comes about until like 8 years old at the least.
 
[–]Thundercunt_McGee 6 points an hour ago 
I would love some sauce with that claim if you have any.
 
[–]seruko 6 points an hour ago 
sure, here's the first google search result http://www.iflscience.com/plants-and-animals/chimps-outsmart-humans-when-it-comes-game-theory
 
[–]drunkandpassedout 4 points an hour ago 
Here's one...
 
[–]Goldfinger888 2 points an hour ago 
Would also like a source
 
[–]seruko 3 points an hour ago 
sure, here's the first google search result http://www.iflscience.com/plants-and-animals/chimps-outsmart-humans-when-it-comes-game-theory
 
[–]Goldfinger888 1 point 32 minutes ago 
cool, thanks!
 
[–]SquishyDelishy 0 points 1 hour ago 
Lol found the activist.
 
[–]seanjohn12117 -1 points 1 hour ago 
Saying obviously untrue things because you get off on being contrarian
/r/justneckbeardthings
 
[–]seruko 1 point 1 hour ago 
You bet on 33.
 
[–]prettydamnbest 0 points 53 minutes ago 
You're the moderator there? At last he has a source instead of just doing a redneck blabber.
 
[–]Atlanticall 0 points 31 minutes ago 
Humans are not necessarily more intelligent than chimpanzees.
Yes they are.
Chimpanzees tend to beat humans in some kinds of game theory challenges.
Excelling at "Some kind of" (primitive) game theory challenges does not mean they are as intelligent or more intelligent than people. I'm familiar with relative intelligence, but you're being generous. A bumblebee is extremely good at certain kinds of pattern recognition to, it doesn't mean they are as intelligent as humans. Call me when a chimp can write a language, engineer a car, or even engineer a stick with a rock attached to it with a piece of vine.
 
[–]win32ce 3 points 2 hours ago 
And a bit of a disadvantage in caloric efficiency. I guess we have made the most of our advantage to overcome that.
 
[–]Anjeer 2 points an hour ago 
And a bit of a disadvantage in caloric efficiency.
Care to expand on this?
I thought that we basically hacked caloric intake by cooking our food, essentially "digesting" it outside our bodies to get more calories per food unit than other species.
 
[–]pocketknifeMT 2 points an hour ago 
Well, we get more calories than we did before cooking. Other animals do different things, like have several stomachs and the ability to break down grass, etc. Turning the world into a big buffet is a viable strategy too.
Anyway, the bigger the brain, the more energy used to power it. If you get the same effects off a smaller brain, it is more efficient.
 
[–]bermudi86 1 point 37 minutes ago 
Are you saying I can lose weight by thinking?
thinks hard about the answer
 
[–]jasaguayo [score hidden] 21 minutes ago 
Do you believe that one day, genetic manipulation will be able to produce animal offspring with more raw intelligence?
 
[–]Mazon_Del 8 points an hour ago 
Amusingly enough, humans tend to fail the mirror test till around 18 months old.
 
[–]FlaccidRazor 4 points an hour ago* 
The mirror test may not be the best test for animals that aren't focused visually as much as humans are. Dogs, for instance, have a sense of smell between 10,000 and 100,000 times more acute than ours, and vision far less acute.
Dogs do recognize their own scent. https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/canine-corner/201107/does-my-dog-recognize-himself-in-mirror We might need to redefine what we consider intelligence.
 
[–]therealtinasky 3 points an hour ago 
This makes an important point about the power of combined biological intelligence and culture. It is the fact that humans are social animals that really gives us a leg up with our intelligence. As mentioned above, crows, octopi, and other animals have a great deal of experimentally demonstrated raw intelligence when it comes to problem solving, memory, and future planning. However, they lack the cultural environment to build on individual success and so each generation more or less starts over. Conversely, humans (and some other primates) that live in social groups can pass on learned behavior, allowing the next generation a head start. This makes it less likely that an animal group such as bears (demonstrated use of tool-making and problem solving) would evolve significant intelligence because in a social environment that allows for the cultural transmission of knowledge, an individual with greater intelligence is going to be recognized and afforded more opportunities to pass on their genes, leading to greater chances for those genes to become more widespread, leading to greater chance for further mutation and selection, etc.
 
[–]prettydamnbest 1 point 52 minutes ago 
Are you implying that the smart guys get the pussy? : P
 
[–]bermudi86 [score hidden] 19 minutes ago 
I love what you wrote here, but it begs the question, why aren't apes getting "smarter"? They are social animals just like humans and have also demonstrated raw intelligence. This really boggles my mind.
 
[–]fizzlefist 2 points an hour ago 
Hell, Octopusses are super intelligent. If their brains were wired to be social and if they didn't die after reproducing, who knows what they might be capable of.
 
[–]Ex-Y-Zed 3 points an hour ago* 
Many other animals display really impressive intellects (other great apes, cetaceans, even crows, etc), often passing tests of intelligence such as the mirror test[1] (amongst other impressive feats). Certainly things to rival human
Ya, maybe for a 5 year old human, not for an adult. Most of the "impressive" intelligence traits we see in animals are shit humans are doing by the age of 6...and that's without intense effort by an army of scientists trying to provoke certain intelligence traits out of animals, birds, etc.
It's like the crow example - supposedly showing superior cognitive intelligence. Ya, for a bird. If that was an adult human we wouldn't be impressed, we'd assume there was probably a severe mental disability if they couldn't figure it out. Or like dolphins showing empathy - yes, 5 year olds also show empathy, and understand high level pattern recognition, and relatively basic language comprehension, etc. If they don't we usually consider it a big problem.
A human simply watching and understanding a modern action film requires an incredible degree of auditory, cognitive and visual intelligence, far beyond the capacity of any other species of anything on the planet.
Remember - any intelligence traits we observe & ascribe to other species are based on traits humans already possess at a very high level. We should know, we defined these traits. This isn't to say other species possess abilities and traits humans do / not cannot, it's just when it comes to intelligence (as defined by us) we are at top of the pile, and the next floor down is waaaaaaay down.
Now, we could go by the comical idea that dolphins are insanely smart, talk to aliens in space and are far smarter than us. But you'd think, when they're being threatened, butchered, having their fins cut off, and witnessing the destruction of our planet (and their habitat) by humans they'd maybe do something about it. But maybe they exist in some kind of zen energy state of super intelligence though, and they're dolphin bodies are irrelevant, and they're just observing the universe in some other abstract way, while swimming around in meat sacs. Maybe. Probably not. Sorry Douglas Adams.
 
[–]Orapac4142 [score hidden] 21 minutes ago 
You sound really, really angry about this topic.
 
[–]ElectrocutionSurvivr 1 point an hour ago 
Just to piggy back on what you said, the majority view among linguists is that the human capacity for grammar/language is a unique adaptation that is analogous to a spider spinning a web.
 
[–]ZannX [score hidden] 13 minutes ago 
But if you raised an ape from birth and tried to educate it, it wouldn't really be a human level ...
 
[–]MeandersOffTopic 16 points 2 hours ago 
Intelligence is not the end goal of evolution. Evolution has no goals.
I try to explain this to people I work with, and I cannot make them understand it.
Evolution just happens, it is not a living, breathing thing with a plan.
 
[–]Skulder 5 points 44 minutes ago 
I like to explain evolution as "away from" rather than "towards". For a lot of people that seems to make the coin drop.
 
[–]joepierson [score hidden] 6 minutes ago 
Determinism says the same thing about humans, BTW. So saying evolution has goals is just as incorrect as saying humans have goals.
 
[–][deleted] 2 hours ago 
[–]Newbanks77 -2 points 50 minutes ago 
Unlike the God who created you.... but that's none of my business.
 
[–]MeandersOffTopic 1 point 40 minutes ago 
God didn't create me.
There is no god.
 
[–]scriage 2 points 34 minutes ago 
Just to enrage you: you do not know that to be a fact, nor can you prove it
lolz, over to you
 
[–]Reckoner525 34 points 2 hours ago 
Intelligence is not the end goal of evolution. Evolution has no goals. Natural selection just leads to a species that will survive, and there are lots of different survival strategies out there beyond intelligence.
This is important. Humans are not some pinnacle of evolution, just a certain branch. We aren't "ahead" of other species. We don't win anything by being most intelligent, we aren't the best.
Are we really better at being humans than rats are at being rats, or ants are at being ants? Neither of them seem to be threatening a mass-extinction of their own making for a start.
 
[–]THLycanthrope 9 points an hour ago 
In fact, our relatively low birth rate and long stretches between birth and fertility mean that we are pretty far behind other species in terms of selective generations.
 
[–]Janus96Approx 5 points an hour ago 
Neither of them seem to be threatening a mass-extinction of their own making for a start.>
Sooo... we do win at beeing an asteroid?
 
[–]SquishyDelishy -2 points an hour ago 
Humans are the pinnacle of evolution on earth and we are better than other species. By being the most dominant species around, we "win" the ability to create societies, expand our population, and share knowledge.
The goal of evolution is reproduction. Humans are fucking just fine at that. We dominate every other species on this planet. This shows us that while intelligence isn't the specific goal of evolution, it's definitely one of the most important aspects of species development on earth.
 
[–]Reckoner525 5 points an hour ago 
Humans are the pinnacle of evolution on earth and we are better than other species.
You better hope the universe has no sense of irony, otherwise I see an encounter with hungry bears in your near future.
Better is subjective. I don't see any other species inventing vaccinations or landing a probe on a comet. Equally, other species don't tend to over-dominate their ecosystems like humans to, do the detriment of general bio-diversity.
The older I get, the more I think this guy was on to something, so I appreciate your enthusiasm.
 
[–]Diodon 2 points 33 minutes ago 
Uhh, uni-cellular life here. You are just one of many vessels built to serve us. You're doing just great at that, but if you decide not to stick around we'll also be just fine without you. Global warming? Please, we've been fucking with the environment on a global scale for aeons before your ancestors were even crawling about in the mud! Nuclear holocaust? Cry us a river! We've been dealing with die-offs on a scale you can hardly imagine on a continual basis. Asteroid impacts? Mass extinction? We've seen critters far grander than yourselves come and go, and here we remain!
Bottom line: you're overly complex and fragile, get over it! But whatever, keep doing what you're doing. It's been entertaining!
 
[–]ffp12 1 point 41 minutes ago 
Bullshit. Bacteria are better at it, and while they can survive without humans, humans can't without bacteria. Humans need to colonize other planets and those colonies need to able to colonize others planets to prove humans are significantly more intelligent than cockroaches.
 
[–]HandshakeOfCO 7 points an hour ago 
Adopt tabby from animal shelter.
place on carefully selected planet.
wait a few hundred million years.
BOOM TALKING CAT
 
[–]kwn2 14 points an hour ago 
If you put it in the hold of a mining ship instead, it'll have amazing fashion sense.
 
[–]Mortis2000 1 point an hour ago 
Dammit, came here to post something along these lines and you've beaten me too it and done a better job than I would. Well done!
 
[–]Bad-Ideas 1 point 55 minutes ago 
I love you.
 
[–]FelipeAngeles 7 points an hour ago 
Maybe if humans were out of the picture somehow.
On the contrary. If humans select for intelligence we may be able to accelerate the whole process. We already do that. Specially with dogs; they seem to be a very "plastic" species. Look at what borders collies can already do. Add a few thousand years.
 
[–]z500 5 points 2 hours ago 
Would it be possible for a species that lives in a domain not typically inhabited by humans to rise to a comparable level of intelligence? I want to say yes, but that kind of thing doesn't seem to happen very often.
 
[–]palcatraz 6 points 2 hours ago 
It would be possible, yes. But possible doesn't necessarily mean probable. There are so many factors that play a role, and many of them are dictated by random chance, that the odds wouldn't be very high.
 
[–]Bodhisattva211 12 points 3 hours ago 
This is why I don't think that it's entirely implausible to think that intelligent life is incredibly rare in our universe, yet every time I bring it up as a counterargument during discussion, I get shot down. I will agree that life on other planets is probable, given the sheer size of our universe, but intelligent life comparable to our own... I'm not so sure. I was so relieved to discover the Great Filter theory here on Reddit.
 
[–]cyrano111 9 points an hour ago 
I've often made this same argument myself. People sometime wonder whether dinosaurs could have evolved our level of intelligence if they hadn't been wiped out, which ignores the fact that they were around far far longer than we have been before being wiped out.
In the extraterritorial intelligence debate, this can be coupled with a different point (also related to the great filter argument). It's not sufficient that there be intelligent life elsewhere: for there to be aliens in the sense that interests us, that intelligent life has to exist at the same time as us. If intelligent life develops but doesn't stick around very long, then the extreme age of the universe begins to count against the Drake equation.
It becomes like two people picking a number between one and a million: even though both people exist, the odds they pick the same number are pretty low.
 
[–]gsfgf 2 points an hour ago 
People sometime wonder whether dinosaurs could have evolved our level of intelligence if they hadn't been wiped out, which ignores the fact that they were around far far longer than we have been before being wiped out.
There are some pretty fucking smart birds out there. But they can't do as much with it because they don't have thumbs.
 
[–]Diomanger 1 point 57 minutes ago 
Note that we actually only are talking about star-faring civilisations. They are unlikely to die out, their eggs are in several, and expanding amount, baskets.
 
[–]cyrano111 2 points 48 minutes ago 
If there are star-faring civilisations. That's part of the point of wondering about the great filter: maybe species which develop intelligence wipe themselves out too quickly to engage in the colonization of space.
 
[–]Orapac4142 [score hidden] 14 minutes ago 
Some days I feel like we will wipe our selves out before we mange to do that because of...well take your pick of why. Religious differences, extreme cultural differences, greed and corruption etc.
Then I just repress that because mother fucking hyperspace and lasers and shit.
 
[–]onehundredmonkeys 2 points an hour ago 
I'm on this page too. Humans are incredibly anthropomorphic and project human traits other species, extraterrestrial life included.
 
[–]Bad-Ideas 2 points an hour ago 
I take this argument even further.
A lot of people act like an planet within the "goldilocks zone" is almost inevitable to develop life.
But that's just not true. there are SO MANY astronomically improbable, and completely unconnected things that have to align JUST RIGHT (many of which we still don't understand) for life to have the chance or occurring, and even then we still can't say how likely it is to happen even under those perfect conditions, because we still don't understand what they all are, or exactly how they lead to life in our case. We just do know of a million different things that would easily have prevented our life from starting if they had happened any differently.
So yes, in the vast universe it is still inevitable that life has happened elsewhere. It just can't possibly be nearly as common as so many people seem to expect.
Then you have to take into account the vastness of time. Life on this planet has existed for a basically microscopic amount of time in the grand scheme of things. So the chances that not only other life but other intelligent has happened at the SAME TIME as us, instead of millions of years before or after. Well that just makes it even more unlikely.
And then you have this topic. The fact that intelligent life is not an inevitable evolutionary path. Which so many people seem to assume.
So to "discover intelligent life. you first need what must be one of the most rare occurrences in the universe, life. Then you need it to have taken 1 very specific evolutionary path(which is not innately the "best" path for survival). Then you need it to exist during the exact same minuscule blip of time as we do. THEN you would need for it to reside in a very limited area of the immense universe, for there to be even any hypothetical chance of us encountering each other.
Really, 2 instances of intelligent life from separate planets, actually meeting would be the most improbable thing that's ever happened since the start of the universe
 
[–]prettydamnbest 2 points 49 minutes ago 
And that argument holds some water. Even based on pure statistics, it is rather unlikely our planet is the only one that bears life. Whether the other life forms are intelligent is another matter, but, although it's beyond mathematics, I personally feel it is very likely as well.
 
[–]std_out 3 points 1 hour ago 
Given how big the universe is, i think it's probable there is an immense amount of planets that harbor some form of life. and it's likely there is intelligent life rivaling our own out there but we will never be aware of each other existence at any point due to billions light years separating us.
 
[–]Diomanger 1 point 58 minutes ago 
The Fermi paradox is a paradox because we do not, cannot, know the answer - not because there are no good guesses. With current technology, more or less, we could colonise the galaxy within 20 million years - which is nothing. There is a potential for one or more hospitable planets for every star, so there will need to be in the vicinity of one chance in a few hundred billion for a possibly hospitable planet to develop a starfaring civilisation in.. What would it be, 10 billion years, give or take, since the first relevant planets showed up? At least 5, anyway.
But fo sho, intelligence, knowledgesharing (probably in packs) and tool-wielding above water are all part of it. Me, I think the greatest filter is that the only ones going starfaring are the ones that manage not to kill themselves first. Humanity is likely to ruin the climate and ruin life in the seas and then all life that we are dependent on unless we bomb ourselves first. If we do not we will probably go all star trek about colonising and such. Anyways, another angle of the great filter hypothesis is that you only need something like 20 one-fifth chance filters to equal a filter of one in a hundred billion.
 
[–]fart_guy [score hidden] 9 minutes ago 
Have you considered that "intelligence" is arguably the most common adaptation in nature? Just because humans tend to subjectively appraise themselves as far more intelligent than other life on earth doesn't mean "intelligence" is rare. Dogs have intelligence. Even something like a fly, which is little more than a biological machine has intelligence.
The adaptive benefit of being able to interpret and apply the consequences of your experiences to new situations (which is really what intelligence is in it's most reduced formulation) is absolutely tremendous.
It makes no sense to arbitrarily draw a line and say "things as smart as humans or smarter are 'intelligent', while things not as smart as humans are 'non-intelligent'" No, that's not it at all! Intelligence, like almost everything else, is a spectrum, and human intelligence is just another point on that spectrum. We might be the 99.97 percentile in the universe, but we could just as easily be the .03 percentile, we honestly have no fucking way of knowing right now.
 
[–]twxtwx 1 point an hour ago 
Not sure if I understand the triple negation correctly. I think that intelligent life is incredibly common. All that seems needed is for a species to develop communication that works well enough so that information starts accumulating in culture rather than in genes. Looking at the pre- and post-language speed of change in our species and its impact should make that clear.
 
[–]Snuggly_Person 1 point an hour ago 
There aren't many things you need, but what are the odds that those things are selected for in the first place? A lot of the benefits of intelligence are long-term, which evolution of course doesn't care about. An individual who is unusually intelligent--or even just happens to figure something out-- may have their advance incorporated by everyone else, since imitation is easier than invention, and then there's not much strong incentive to select for intelligence. Especially such a rapid inflation that goes beyond the ability to perceive and deal with danger.
There were plenty of species around for hundreds of millions of years, with no sign of intelligence and communication anywhere. And Earth is pretty much halfway through its lifespan as a planet. Given a planet with an explosion of life that lasts for billions of years, we get one strongly intelligent species. Tough hides develop a lot, fangs develop a lot, keen eyesight develops a lot, quick reflexes develop a lot. Intelligence explosion develops once. The vast majority of planets with life on them probably never develop human-level intelligence at all.
 
[–]Maxnwil 1 point 59 minutes ago 
Completely agreed. Too many people believe intelligence is the highest end of evolution, missing the point that evolution has no end. I hear the same arguments about AI. Why would robots want to be conscious? If you can simply be plugged in again, why would a robot desire a sense of mortality?
 
[–]twxtwx 1 point 45 minutes ago 
Agreed: There wasn't anything like human-intelligence for a couple billion years. Then there was. Once. It is hard to come up with statistics based on the sampling size of 1 planet. There are 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 planets out there (says google, has it ever been wrong?) Let's simplify things and let's say that some evolutionary dice get rolled exactly once in the lifetime of a planet to decide if there is 'human-level intelligence' . Let's say that a dice roll takes a second. Let's say that planets all roll dice since 1 billion years. If my calculator / brain do not lie to me, then there are 317 million planets making that 1s in a billion years dice roll right now. And in the next second, and the next, etc, etc.
 
[–]THLycanthrope 0 points an hour ago 
It is almost certainly rare. Our planet has existed for 4.5 billion years and it took another billion years for the first simple life to arise.
Humanity has existed for about 4 million years, and only in the four thousand years did we really start developing anything that would set our "intelligence" outside nature. And then only in the last 130 years did we do anything that would be detectable to other star systems.
HOWEVER, rarity among a billion-trillion stars still leaves us a lot of reason to keep looking. Any species capable of removing themself from natural selection and bending nature to their will eventually spread to other planets circling other stars. The real question is of overlap with where we are in time.
 
[–]JonasPolskyAMA 4 points an hour ago 
Maybe if humans were out of the picture somehow.
We're working on it.
 
[–]skatmanjoe 4 points an hour ago 
Mutations are not directed. They just happen. You'd have to have an animal who just happens to have an mutation that leads to more intelligence in an environment that rewards that mutation. That is a lot of random chance.
Can't we manipulate this process? I mean we created the friendliest animal (dog) from a wild beast (wolf) with domestication. Which if I understand right was a directed form of evolution.
 
[–]jukranpuju 1 point 56 minutes ago 
That was part of the plot in Michael Crichton's novel "Next", transgenic animals who had intelligence comparable to humans.
 
[–]btribble [score hidden] 29 minutes ago 
Yes, but you'd have to expand the definition of evolution to include artificial manipulation. What you're describing is called engineering.
 
[–]Flooshki 3 points 2 hours ago 
Would it be possible to selectively mutate let's say a cat's dna to be intelligent in the future?
 
[–]palcatraz 3 points an hour ago 
Not very likely. (I'm no geneticist, mind you). First of all, intelligence is a pretty nebulous concept to begin with. What do we define as intelligence? Is it speech? Is it the use of tools? (did you know crocodiles have been known to use tools) Is it being able to solve puzzles? Is it understanding cause and effect? etc etc.
Then, even if we were able to determine what exactly constitutes intelligence, the chance that there is only one gene responsible for all of that is slim to none. So you'd have to find out all the genes responsible, how they interact with each other, how to modify them to have the right end results.
Not a very likely scenario.
 
[–]balcony_falcon 3 points an hour ago 
Also, there are countless external factors to the genome that would have to be taken into account.
 
[–]scriage [score hidden] 25 minutes ago 
Are you referring to epigenetics? I'm assuming anything environmental could be controlled for
 
[–]kramsy [score hidden] 4 minutes ago 
But Jurassic Park!
 
[–]scriage [score hidden] 26 minutes ago 
Not a very likely scenario.
Wait, but we're just taking tiny baby steps into artificial intelligence and big data. Computational biology is in its infancy. That intelligence is a hazy concept and which particular genes are involved aren't barriers to this being possible in future, they're challenges along the way.
Computational biology will help make the problem more tractable, the question is how fast and are there any limitations. So I'm surprised you didn't answer "Probably but the path is very hazy and way beyond current science to do in a controlled and ethical manner"
 
[–]R_for_Robija 3 points an hour ago 
Just a follow up on your answer:
Another thing why humans must be out of picture is because of our interactions with animals (domestication) which is exact opposite direction in regard to direction needed for animals (lets say cats and dogs) to evolve.
Food, shelter, guaranteed reproduction - no reason to evolve.
 
[–]balcony_falcon 1 point an hour ago 
There's still selection going on, even in that model. For example, "cute" will get selected over time over the "not-so-cute". After all, it's evolutionarily advantageous to select for traits that increase the possibility of being protected and cosseted by humans.
 
[–]OrdinaryVisionary 3 points an hour ago 
obligatory "I AIN'T NO MONKEY". It's amazing how many people think that evolution decides to do something.
 
[–]mhw0001 0 points an hour ago 
Great Filter
I think you mean, "My great-great-great grandpappy didn't come out of no monkey's butt hole".
 
[–]Shahata_Joe 3 points an hour ago 
But domestication. We bred cows and dogs and pigs and cats to be what they are.
If we took up domestication and selected the smartest animals and keep breeding them to be as intelligent as possible, we'd be able to, eventually, make...something....
 
[–]AndyhpuV 2 points 2 hours ago 
Maybe if humans were out of the picture somehow.
Like a 12 monkeys situation.
 
[–]pcx226 2 points 2 hours ago 
That and human knowledge and intelligence w.o fine motor control and oposable thumbs isn't as useful as your think.
 
[–]Yare_Owns 2 points an hour ago 
Our intelligence is also very inefficient, energy-wise. Grey Goo would be better at replicating and modifying its environment despite no intelligence at all. A hive intelligence could operate without wasting energy on every individual needing to learn algebra or whatever.
 
[–]rochford77 2 points an hour ago 
Right, but because there is a "random chance" and assuming time is infinite, then somewhere down the line it will happen, no? I mean, if I had a 1 million sided die, and rolled it forever without a limit on time, eventually I would roll the side that had "intelligence", right? I mean, weren't there dinosaurs (raptors?) That were on their way in many respects to human like intelligence? Or even dolphins or Wales? I mean, they are not humans, but could be considered " on the right path" no?
 
[–]JoeyBananas79 19 points an hour ago 
I wouldn't go so far as to call the Welsh "not human". They do at the least display some capability with tools and have developed a series of noises that could be considered speech
 
[–]Amaterashu 1 point 55 minutes ago 
Your post has been linked to on /r/evenwithcontext! https://www.reddit.com/r/evenwithcontext/comments/3s5q7u/i_wouldnt_go_so_far_as_to_call_the_welsh_not/
 
[–]JoeyBananas79 [score hidden] 16 minutes ago 
Damn man, it was only a joke.
 
[–]prettydamnbest 1 point 44 minutes ago 
OMG. I spotted it, too. I LOL'ed.
 
[–]prettydamnbest 1 point 40 minutes ago 
Short answer: yes, intelligence would emerge IF conditions are favourable; in other words: you need so called 'evolutionary pressure'. Without a definitive advantage (no matter how small it may seem in real life), there is no reason why the gene frequency in that population would rise. Specific individuals might be very smart, but they would not procreate more often than their less smart siblings. Therefore the species on the whole will not rise in intelligence to any significant degree.
 
[–]Bad-Ideas [score hidden] 4 minutes ago 
It's not that simple. It's not just a matter of rolling that same die over and over until you get the desired result. Because there is a limited number of possibilities for any "specific" scenario, regardless of how many times you repeat that scenario. the dice analogy doesn't work well here.
Instead imagine your... well, ok... let do this... imagine you're "god"(don't start an atheist rant here reddit, this is just a tool to make an analogy). You have earth, you have your desired species(lets choose cats, there are you less mad at me now reddit?) that you want to develop to be intelligent.
You hit play. they end up as cute little furry nitwits, damn.
You rewind things back to the earliest point where they can be considered "cats", and let them start over with a second chance, and third, and hundredth, and hundred millionth chances. The end results aren't going to be that radically different, if the conditions are the same.
Not mater how many times you do the same thing, your results are going to stay the same. even if you have infinite time.
You must ALSO need to have infinite variation.
Which would be not like just rolling a dice for the "cats", but another one for different versions of "earth" and getting the right side on both at the same time. also the "sides of the die" would have to be closer to infinite...
 
[–]throwyourshieldred 2 points an hour ago 
Plus, just the weird sci-fi thought...if we had another species approaching sentience, I'd suspect humans would try to control it or stop it.
 
[–]leesoutherst 2 points an hour ago 
Just to add to your argument a bit - consider the evolutionary pathway of humans.
You may consider a human's defining characteristic to be brainpower. Early scientists expected to see ancient humans showing cranial development, and then the other traits of man would arise afterwards. After all, the brain is why we are different, right?
But there's another thing that is different - our hands. Our hands are far more intricate than any other animal. Scientists discovered early hominids with brains not dissimilar from chimps, but with complicated hands. And then, as time passed, the brain grew.
So the theory is this: primates could use very simple tools. To use tools, we evolved better hands. Through better hands, we gained the ability to make better tools. However, making new tools required more cognitive ability, so we evolved our brains. Those are the evolutionary stresses that might have led to humans.
So for a dog or cat, there needs to be a reason for them to develop intelligence.
 
[–]Gundersen 2 points an hour ago* 
And they'd have to compete with us. We were successful because our intelligence filled a niche that was empty up until that time. But that niche is now filled, which makes it much harder for that to be a successful mutation. Maybe if humans were out of the picture somehow.
We humans consider ourselves much smarter than other animals because we have slowly killed of all other species with similar intelligence. The neanderthals were probably as intelligent as us, but they went extinct 40 000 years ago, and homo erectus went extinct roughly 70 000 years ago (Homo sapiens developed roughly 200 000 years ago, so the three species interacted). Since then all other great apes (hominids) have either gone extinct or are endangered/critically endangered.
We humans seem to think we are in an evolutionary race of intelligence, a race that we are currently winning. But it's not just that we have raced away from the other competitors, we have killed of the species in second, third and fourth place, and now it appears to us like we've outrun the other competitors. But just to be certain that we will win this race, we are currently killing of the rest of the top ten intelligent species. In reality they are not in a race with us, as others have said, intelligence is not the end goal if evolution.
I'm not saying humans have intentionally killed off (and are continuing to kill off) all other intelligent species, but it is happening, maybe subconsciously, maybe by pure chance or maybe it's in our nature. It's therefore not an evolutionary advantage for other species to become more intelligent, as that seems to increase their likelihood of them going extinct.
 
[–]sheepfreedom 2 points an hour ago 
Completely agree, except you are forgetting that even a 0.000000000001% chance becomes a 100% chance in infinite time. So in that case it would happen, despite random chance.
 
[–]MattieGirsh 1 point 1 hour ago 
Yea this is pretty spot on, BUT, hypothetically speaking, if the existence of life on earth was infinite (which we all know it's not but stick with me) wouldn't it be statistically inevitable? So over time, would it become increasingly less unlikely?
P.S. it's early and i haven't had my coffee yet so I can't tell if I articulated my thoughts correctly or if they even make sense.
 
[–]Bad-Ideas [score hidden] 27 minutes ago 
You would need for not only life on earth to be infinite, but for the conditions on earth to be continually changing in an infinite combination of ways. In order for the for it to be "inevitable" for the right set of circumstances to occur that would both require and facilitate a specific species (say house cats) to develop human level intelligence.
Plus failure is always an option. Usually the statistically most likely option. So in a "survival of the fittest" where intelligence is required for survival, then failure means extinction. Which puts you back at square one of waiting for cats to evolve "from scratch" all over again to try again!
So if both time/life on earth are infinite, and conditions are infinitely varied, then yes statistically at SOME point of eternity the the perfect series of events would have to arise.
But without the infinitely varied conditions aspect, meaning that the conditions would stay static, then even with infinite time there would be nothing to trigger the desired change, so the species would just continue doing the same thing that already works, forever...
 
[–]SalamanderUponYou 1 point 1 hour ago 
Has anyone ever tried to breed chimps or an animal with similar intelligence selecting for intelligence alone?
 
[–]Dracious 2 points 54 minutes ago 
I don't know if anyones actually tried this, but one problem with it is that the animals such as chimps etc that have high intelligence (at least in the way we often judge it) live quite a long time, so it would have to be a very long term experiment.
We have obviously already done these things with other animals of similar life spans such as dogs and various cattle, but we started doing that thousands of years ago and usually because it gave us some direct physical benefits (more food from cattle/ better companionship from dogs/etc).
So if someone has selectively bred chimps or other such animal for intelligence I would suspect we would still be many many years off actually getting any worthwhile data from it.
 
[–]Zillatamer [score hidden] 5 minutes ago 
You're right about the long time to reach sexual maturity; 8 years for a male Chimp and almost 14 for a female (just like human females), compared to about 1-2 years for most dogs and cattle, and just under 3 for horses.
However, we have done a domestication experiment on foxes that lasted 40 years. Were we to assume similar progression per generation for Chimps (a very flimsy assumption) we would still require hundreds of years of breeding, but not thousands. It's actually most likely that the actual time to domestication, behaviorally at least, was only a few hundred for those animals, with some being noticeably altered within a few human generations. It's just that the initial events were followed by thousands more years of selective breeding, but it didn't actually take us two millennium to breed wild cattle into plow pulling oxen.
Still, we didn't really select for intelligence in those animals so much as limb proportions, which are highly varied and "plastic" in generational time, and simple behavioral traits (lower adrenaline for all, especially dogs and horses), which are also highly varied and easily changed over generations.
Selecting for intelligence would be difficult, and may very likely take many more generations than it would take to select for docility, or new body shapes. So several hundred/thousand years to breed intelligent Chimps would be most likely, and the experiment would almost certainly be rejected on a moral basis is not the time one.
However, given our advances in vertebrate genetic engineering, and our increasing knowledge of human and animal cognition/neuroscience, its very likely that we could induce/replicate human brain and skull development in chimps within the next century or so, without needing selective breeding.
 
[–]ImAFlyingWhale 1 point an hour ago 
Destroy all humans!
 
[–]srini10000 1 point an hour ago 
Well here's something I've never understood. Won't being more intelligent guarantee any species' survival? Won't wolves survive better if they become more intelligent at hunting. Why did humans keep selecting Intelligence. What was so different about factors that influenced our survival compared to those of chimps or wolves or whales?
Or am I looking at this wrong?
 
[–]spencer102 1 point an hour ago 
There are many different things that will help a species propogate, intelligence is just one.
 
[–]geauxjeaux 1 point an hour ago 
Sure, wolves may become better at hunting if they are smarter.. but wouldn't you say that being faster, bigger, and having sharper teeth are more important factors? Until wolves grow opposable thumbs are develop the ability to fire guns, physical attributes are a more important factor in the survivability of the species.
 
[–]srini10000 1 point an hour ago 
So are wolves faster or stronger than they were a million years ago?
 
[–]geauxjeaux 1 point an hour ago 
the wolves who were best at hunting survived and passed their genes on... Not sure if wolves today are faster or stronger than their ancestors, just "better."
 
[–]HadiDev [score hidden] 12 minutes ago 
It wouldn't help wolves if pups needed to be reared and fed for 2 years.
The most successful life on Earth is bacteria. The simplest dna copying chemical machines. Everything more complex is in a niche. Humans evolved in a tiny tiny niche.
 
[–]heliotach712 1 point an hour ago 
wasn't there a type of dinosaur that had a larger brain than the mammalian ancestors that existed at the time, and had claws that were evolving into hands? Called the troodon.
 
[–]kattmedtass 1 point an hour ago 
Considering the amount of power the human race have over other species at this point, is it reasonable to argue that submission might be the only evolutionarily viable option for a lot of other species? At least for as long as humans control the planet and our level of control increases as it has. I'm reminded of dogs. I read somewhere that it's probable that dogs wouldn't have survived as a species unless humans had domesticated them.
 
[–]NorbiPeti 1 point an hour ago 
Natural selection just leads to a species that will survive, and there are lots of different survival strategies out there beyond intelligence.
But if humans would (only) interfere by somehow rewarding the intelligence, after a while we would end up with intelligent species, right?
 
[–]burnrobe 1 point an hour ago 
The Universe is filled with random chance and wonder.
 
[–]GoatButtholes 1 point an hour ago 
Won't intelligence offer a higher chance of survival though? Why would having humans in the picture make it less likely?
I'd imagine the opposite since the smarter animals will be able to use their intelligence to learn quicker and prevent being hunted / will also be able to hunt better themselves.
 
[–]dropspepper 1 point an hour ago 
This is why I'm baffled when people are certain that there is intelligent life elsewhere in the universe.
 
[–]RexGrammer 1 point an hour ago 
Following that logic: if a species with extreme strength evolved, could they wipe out humans?
 
[–]palcatraz [score hidden] 9 minutes ago 
Not necesarily. There are already many species out there with enormous amount of strength compared to a human. They aren't wiping us out, because we humans are capable (through out use of tools/weapons) to kill these creatures without directly engaging them.
I mean, a gorilla got a scary amount of power compared to even the strongest human. But that won't help that gorilla anything when its getting killed a whole bunch of feet away by a gun.
 
[–]-lol_lol- 1 point an hour ago 
While you're absolutely right and seem to have stimulated a lot of discussion, you didn't answer the question. You came close a few times and then sprinted away.
 
[–]nailz1000 1 point 59 minutes ago 
Mutations are not directed? Tell that to dogs.
 
[–]palcatraz [score hidden] 7 minutes ago 
Mutations still aren't directed. Humans can affect the chances of those mutations continuing on by selective breeding, but we didn't make those mutations happen in the first place.
 
[–]bakersresin 1 point 57 minutes ago 
So the answer is yes, they could. For some reason you listed all the reasons they would.
 
[–]randomaccount1451435 1 point 56 minutes ago 
That rant wasn't addressing the question. A simple yes would have sufficed.
 
[–]ReVaas 1 point 54 minutes ago 
that's a great explanation. thank you
 
[–]thatsnotirrelephant 1 point 48 minutes ago 
I'm trying to think of a situation where intelligence wouldn't help and the environment wouldn't reward it?
 
[–]tacnobac 1 point 47 minutes ago 
So, in short: Yes
 
[–]ali_dick_da_pic_guy 1 point 44 minutes ago 
Are we making animals stupider having filled that niche so successfully are there animals may as well fill another niche?
 
[–]musicmast 1 point 41 minutes ago 
our intelligence filled a niche that was empty up until that time
Which niche are you talking about?
 
[–]MasterJax 1 point 36 minutes ago 
The cell reprogram itself for every time it reproduce itself, call them software upgrades, then when they meet another living being and combine and create a new colony, it is a hardware upgrade.
Every step of change is to become more energy efficient, so they will grow into the best form to take in energy.
but this makes me think, are just just a robot made out of cells and they control us as we control machines? and something even smaller control cells as we control machines?
 
[–]Outofhereatnoon 1 point 31 minutes ago 
Yup sound pretty far fetched to me.
 
[–]Akira_MacGegor 1 point 30 minutes ago 
Evolution has no goals? What about survival?
 
[–]KapteeniJ [score hidden] 29 minutes ago 
Human ancestry seems to be filled with rather curious stories. For millions of years up until 0.02 million years ago, there were plenty of close cousins to us that were at equal level of intelligence compared to our ancestors. They all disappeared eventually, Neantherdal only 0.02 million years ago. Neantherdal then again was more or less just as intelligent as modern humans
Dunno what are implications of this, but seems that either developing intelligence of human level is dangerous business and can easily backfire in the form of extinction, or that modern humans were really efficient in eliminating competition.
 
[–]guest8272 [score hidden] 25 minutes ago 
Kind of crazy to think how easily humans may not have existed
 
[–]putin_vor [score hidden] 22 minutes ago 
and there are lots of different survival strategies out there beyond intelligence
But intelligence beats them all. That's why it's pretty much inevitable. It has developed in many animals independently. Octopuses, dolphins, monkeys, crows.
 
[–]Enviromente [score hidden] 20 minutes ago 
Are you serious... You really believe this shit?
 
[–]Dabrybry [score hidden] 20 minutes ago 
Maybe evolution doesn't have a goal, but intelligence has obviously served us really well. Perhaps it is sort of the end-game, high tier modality for survival/thriving.
 
[–]vanceco [score hidden] 17 minutes ago 
It's amazing how much random chance it took for us to be able to evolve. From things like size and position of our planet in the solar sytem, the moon, a liquid iron core and tectonic plates that allowed the planet to be habitable, to the asteroid that probably took out the dinasaurs that allowed us to evolve. If we make the planet uninhabitable for ourselves, perhaps another species will be able to adapt through intelligence over time. Dolphins already have as much if not more intelligence- but we might be making the planet just as uninhabitable for them, by fouling the oceans and raising its temps. Maybe a race of super-intelligent jellyfish will eventually evolve.
 
[–]LordHy [score hidden] 13 minutes ago 
I would think humans increase the chance that animals evolve intelligence... We would take extra good care of the individuals that evolved that trait...
 
[–]Im_an_Owl [score hidden] 12 minutes ago 
So what led to humans developing intelligence?
 
[–]sudstah [score hidden] 9 minutes ago* 
Evolution does not design, it reproduces and mutates in any given environment, traits may be lost or kept even if they are currently not needed to survive, our very own dna is full of baggage dna including many archaic viruses that our ancestor came into contact with in the past, essentially it's like a shotgun approach to letting at least a few living organism's survive, many don't and to be honest not a single animal stays the same to last throughout the ages whether its due to evolving into another animal or losing their niche and dying off totally! And the intelligence part with human's, I read apparently that it came about in the rift valley, that very specific environment, if we was anywhere else we wouldn't be the humans we are today.
 
[–]Quidfacis_ [score hidden] 6 minutes ago 
You'd have to have an animal who just happens to have an mutation that leads to more intelligence in an environment that rewards that mutation. That is a lot of random chance.
It already happened at least once. If we're speculating on possibilities, we weigh those possibilities that have been actualized as more possible than those possibilities that have not been actualized.
 
[–]RominctTaurus [score hidden] 6 minutes ago 
If you have an infinite number of attempts, every possible outcome is certain.
 
[–]Fatjim3 1 point 2 hours ago 
I would also like to point out that natural selection in evolution largely does not concern competition between differing species, but instead competition within species.
It's not mouse vs cat, it's about which mouse is better at not getting eaten by the cat.
 
[–]palcatraz 5 points 2 hours ago 
Natural selection happens within a species, yes, but the presence of other species can affect which individual gets naturally selected. Other species are a part of the environmental pressures that determine whether a mutation is successful or not.
 
[–]Mein_Captian 1 point an hour ago 
Interspecies competition is definitely part of natural selection, it's just that its influence varies between different species. Evolutionary arms race is a good example of interspecies competition as an evolutionary force.
 
[–]balcony_falcon 1 point an hour ago 
You could even double the scope and say it's also about the mouse that isn't the best at not being eaten by the cat as it's still part of the selection process. For winners, there has to be losers.
 
[–]Omega_Molecule 79 points 5 hours ago 
Intelligence is a tricky thing. We measure it so we decide what is and is not intelligent, it isn't some immutable thing, it is a quality we give meaning to.
Cats and dogs, or any living thing may be more intelligent than we are, it could just be we don't comprehend their intelligence in any meaningful way. We look for intelligence that meets the same criteria as our own, but there is no reason to assume that is the only type of intelligence, or even the best kind.
We aren't even that good at measuring intelligence among ourselves, so you can imagine how good we are at measuring it in other species with which we can't even communicate.
The answer to your question is if the conditions were right, and increased intellect was favored and let the creature survive and procreate more then yes, any creature can evolve intelligence, given the random chance of it occurring and the favorability of it in the environment.
 
[–]thegodofbigthings 10 points 4 hours ago 
So if I take a lot of rats and put them in an environment where only the most intelligent (based on certain tests I'd design, and keep making difficult as newer generations get smarter) are allowed to breed. After a lot of generations, will we get super-intelligent rats contemplating the meaning of life or are there too many variables at play here to control with just selective breeding?
 
[–]barmasters[🍰] 6 points 3 hours ago 
In theory, yes. In reality, probably not. We as humans may be intelligent, but we haven't even figured out a way to make ourselves that much smarter. The odds of us being able to figure out the exact evolutionary pressures that would cause super intelligent rats after hundreds of thousands of rat generations are so slim as to be non-existent. At that point, they also wouldn't even be rats anymore, their biology would have changed so much they wouldn't be the same species in the same way we aren't homo erectus anymore.
 
[–]Marvinkmooneyoz 3 points 2 hours ago 
I'm not an expert on dog breeding history, but I know that some very stark changes in looks and behavior and ability have happened in just the last 200 years . My current view is, if we tried to breed rats for intelligence, we know enough different ways to test for individual intelligence abilities. If we do one test one generation, reward the best, then change tests each generation, only let the very best reproduce, eventually we will have rats with significantly higher intelligence in a range of ways.
 
[–]barmasters[🍰] 8 points 2 hours ago 
Right, but there's a difference between "intelligence" and "intelligence on par with a human being." How do we even define that? Let's say we breed rats that are better at running mazes. Are they any smarter, or did we just nail down one tiny part of a much larger puzzle at the expense of everything else?
The evolutionary pressure that created humans was on a global scale and took millions of years. Our ability to nail down one or two desirable traits in dogs and breed for that is a drop in the ocean compared to making human level intelligence.
 
[–]SgtKashim 12 points 2 hours ago 
This reminds me of one of the early attempts at "Hardware Evolution". The full story's here, but the gist of it goes like this:
A scientist set up an FPGA (A re-programmable computer chip) with 50 random patterns of gates. The end goal was a system that could tell the difference between a high note and a low note. For hundreds of generations, he played each chip a high note and a low note, then selected the ones that performed the best.
The end result, rather curiously, was a chip that performed nearly flawlessly. You'd play a high note, output stayed high. You played a low note, output dropped to 0. Great. But when you looked at the actual configuration of gates, the way the chip was actually programmed? It made absolutely no sense. There were pieces that looked like they were disconnected from everything else, but if you took them away everything stopped working. If you copied the exact gate sequence to another chip, it didn't work there either.
Somehow his experiment had selected, very carefully, a set of gates that relied on some oddness in the individual silicon he was running the experiment on. Fascinatingly difficult to control what's selected for in an evolutionary system.
 
[–]Thundercunt_McGee 2 points an hour ago 
This sounds facinating, definitely saving it for when I get home
 
[–]daxl70 1 point an hour ago 
What if they would focus on tests that would determine their cooperation and communication?, that seems to be the most advantageous trait humans have over other species.
 
[–]jorellh 6 points 3 hours ago 
http://youtu.be/0jFGNQScRNY
 
[–]Teantis 4 points an hour ago 
Very disappointed this wasn't a clip of the secret of NIMH
 
[–]ALEXALEX303 2 points 3 hours ago 
The problem is that you would die before the rats evolved. Evolution isn't something that happens overnight.
 
[–]Marvinkmooneyoz 3 points 2 hours ago 
Its potential rate is actually very high. Dog breed changes have happened very fast in the last 200 years
 
[–]bcdm 3 points 2 hours ago 
Right, but no dog breed has become super-intelligent and started to ponder the meaning of life during that time. So yes, you would die before you managed to get your dogs to Cogito ergo sum level.
If intelligence of that level were something that we could have bred over that time span, we would have.
 
[–]Thundercunt_McGee 2 points an hour ago 
That comparison fails because as far as I know, no breed of dog has been selected for cognitive ability. Also rats have about 10 time shorter generations than dogs so it stands to reason we could see similar amounts of change within just 20 years of breeding rats.
 
[–]haylobos 2 points an hour ago 
Rats reproduce more quickly and with higher numbers of offspring. Plus no one has even tried. Maybe we'll see it in our lifetime. Who knows?
 
[–]Marvinkmooneyoz 2 points 50 minutes ago 
My prediction is with the right rat breeding program and experiments, we could see ridiculous intelligence changes in 1,000 generations
 
[–]Kumquatodor 0 points an hour ago 
And, if I heard correctly, we have observed finches in the Galopodos (sp? And, yes, the study was partially an homage to Darwin) branching off in to different species over a period of 40 years.
 
[–]drunken_madman 1 point an hour ago 
Galapagos.
 
[–]kasmash 1 point 2 hours ago 
It's pretty quick in rats though.
 
[–]Teantis 1 point an hour ago 
The belyaev fox experiments in that clip seem to suggest otherwise
 
[–]nooneisanonymous 1 point 3 hours ago 
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
 
[–]kasmash 1 point 2 hours ago 
You'd get whatever traits you chose to select for, which might in hindsight not be exactly what you meant by intelligence. Mazerunning might just give idiots with great spatial skills (think ants) for example.
 
[–]saltywings 1 point an hour ago 
No, this can't happen even after millions of years. They have a set of skills built for survival and none of them are based around developing conscious thought. It would only be beneficial if they developed the same habits we have in not abandoning young and rearing them to start with, longer lifespans because of systematic complexities, the ability to learn and pass that down, and the ability to thrive in a group environment. Lone predators never need the ability to think logically unless it is detrimental to their survival and as such have developed sharp teeth and claws as a means of living. Basically, if you were to develop a rat into a sentient being for a million years, you wouldn't call it a rat...
 
[–]justbrowsing278 1 point an hour ago 
only the dark side deal in absolutes
 
[–]Knock0nWood [score hidden] 28 minutes ago 
if you strike me down I will evolve into something more intelligent than you can possibly imagine
 
[–]Omega_Molecule 1 point 4 hours ago 
We don't know what makes intelligence evolve in a species and what needs to happen. The issue is how are you going to measure intelligence. As I explained it isn't like taking a temperature, it is complicated and affected by our biases of what intelligence is.
 
[–]Goobernacula 1 point an hour ago 
Could measure it based on cerebral cortical density using advanced imaging modalities like CT/MRI and EEGs for electrical activity. We equate having more cortex with higher intelligence, though really this would not be an absolute measure intelligence, but rather a comparative test to see how much another species' intelligence is similar to our own.
 
[–]Omega_Molecule 1 point an hour ago 
That all depends on if that is a proper measure or not.
 
[–]Enfants 2 points an hour ago 
Eh? Of course we define the word intelligience. How can you say other animals could be more intelligent in a way we dont define when you can only use the word intelligent as the definition we give it?
In what possible way is our intelligience, of sny type, surpassed by another animal?
Sorry if thats confusing.
 
[–]HadiDev [score hidden] 4 minutes ago 
Just as you are now with your same thoughts and exoeriences. If your mind was transferred to a wolf's body, would you know how to hunt or would you starve?
Human ability is vastly overrated. Unlike the animal kingdom it isn't each creature for itself. We gained knowledge and built civilization over tens of thousands of years, because we evolved a certain way. If you take a "base" human, a caveman, would he still be smarter than an apex predator?
 
[–]Omega_Molecule 0 points an hour ago 
What I mean is that maybe our definition is too narrow.
 
[–]Enfants 2 points an hour ago 
Its a pretty broad definition though. How would you change the definition that would allow some animal to be more intelligent?
 
[–]Omega_Molecule 1 point an hour ago 
What I am getting at is if there is an objective measure of intelligence, whereas our current definition is subjective. An objective definition would be preferable.
 
[–]grunglebear 4 points an hour ago 
Yes, my cat who just ran into the same sliding glass door he did yesterday is more intelligent than me.
It must be that I can't comprehend his brilliance.
 
[–]Omega_Molecule 2 points an hour ago 
I think that speaks more to his capacity for memory and perception of transparent solids than his intelligence.
 
[–]seanjohn12117 1 point an hour ago 
Cats and dogs, or any living thing may be more intelligent than we are, it could just be we don't comprehend their intelligence in any meaningful way.
Do you have anything to back that up or is it just bullshit and you saying things just to be contrarian?
 
[–]Omega_Molecule 2 points an hour ago 
I didn't make a claim, I just stated a possibility...
 
[–]JerrySun [score hidden] 25 minutes ago 
Your claim is that it's a possibility, since we generally consider dogs and cats to be pretty dumb compared to us. A source that he's asking for might be something that could explain what kind of "intelligence" a dog or cat might have that humans don't have.
 
[–]Omega_Molecule [score hidden] 22 minutes ago 
It is a possibility, our knowledge is limited, for all we know fleas make be intergalactic overlords. I don't see the need to source a nonscientific claim of possibility.
 
[–]nanobot001 1 point 32 minutes ago 
It is easily one of the most relativistic comments you will read all day.
 
[–]saltywings 0 points an hour ago 
Intelligence - the ability to acquire and apply knowledge and skills. We have the greatest capacity for this definition and I doubt you will find any other species that has as much learning potential as our own due to the ability to communicate and the brain development that we have gone through. If you were to change the idea of intelligence to a survival aspect even, we still win out with the exception of maybe like a tortoise or some shit that lives to be 100 or so, but one could argue their existence is based on mere chance and ours implements intelligence to increase our lifespan significantly. What you are saying is to me at least, ridiculous, of course things can be subjective, but if you logically believe that other forms of intelligence are superior to ours, then they would be the ones ruling the earth and learning how to be self sustainable. And the answer is no, even with appropriate conditions, not every animal is designed with the same skillset needed to develop intelligence. There could have been another species that replaced humans, but it seems that once a species reaches our mentally capacity and reasoning abilities, they will overtake a planet's ecosystem.
 
[–]AndrewSeven 19 points 3 hours ago 
Sure, but its less about time than it is about the current conditions.
Given how humans already dominate the environment, one of the smartest things a species can do is adapt to humans.
Dogs, cats, and even house sparrows all do very well, possibly better than their wild or feral counterparts.
 
[–]westphall 1 point an hour ago 
But what if instead of competing with and impeding a species' evolution, we tried to encourage it? What if was somehow the goal of humanity to breed dogs that are smart enough to carry on a conversation with us (not through talking, but any sort of communication)?
 
[–]stouset [score hidden] 26 minutes ago 
Dogs already communicate with us, quite successfully in fact. At what point would you consider this goal reached?
 
[–]Gills_L 16 points an hour ago 
Snuffles was my slave name. I will now be called Snowball because my fur is pretty and white.
 
[–]dont_tell_my_mother [score hidden] 16 minutes ago 
Can I hop on the Rick and Morty karma train?
 
[–]jloy88 3 points 49 minutes ago 
..."Where are my testicles, Summer?"
 
[–]monkey_man_ 9 points 4 hours ago 
I like how no one is answering if we could breed or otherwise genetically engineer super smart cats and dogs and instead are waxing poetically about what "similar intelligence level to humans" means.
 
[–]spideesense 5 points 3 hours ago 
Well, that's the whole point. If you define intelligence as the ability to use language, for example, cats and dogs just don't have the structures in their brains, or the vocal mechanisms, that allow them to do that. (They also don't have the manual dexterity to write things. ) You can't create structures that don't exist just by breeding.
On the other hand, if you say, for example, that intelligence is the ability to locate a missing object quickly or quickly identify a foreign chemical in a piece of food, well then, they've already beat us.
 
[–]raultron 1 point 2 hours ago 
Just like the uplift books :)
 
[–]JustVan 4 points 2 hours ago 
I think the more interesting question is sort of like.. can we breed more intelligent life? We already have some pretty smart dogs, and we have been selectively breeding them pretty harshly over the last 10,000 years. We are already selecting for intelligence when we breed dogs. How does it work out that man might eventually breed a dog so intelligent it actually reaches human levels of understanding? I feel like that's a far more likely scenario than that they'd just randomly mutate into intelligence like we did.
 
[–]jaggededge242 0 points an hour ago 
Well a dog will never reach the same "level" of understanding because we are too different to begin with. For starters, dogs perceive less colors in the light spectrum than we do, so how will they be able to tell colored objects apart? Dogs have better a better sense hearing, and smell than we do, so they can out-perform us in those areas. Understanding is subjective and we are limited to observations. How do we understand something we can't observe; can you imagine a new color, see a geometric shapes in four dimensions, or localize things through sound? If dogs were breaded for intelligence they'd be completely different from us because we came from primates and they came from canines.
 
[–]goodbyeoperator 2 points 2 hours ago 
Yes, any animal could. Any animal could evolve literally ANY physically possible trait, though some would be loads more unlikely.
 
[–]peachking1973 2 points an hour ago 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Domesticated_Red_Fox
What about this?
 
[–]Tim_Burton 2 points 34 minutes ago 
Depends on your definition of intelligence.
There was a point in our ancestry where a genetic mutation allowed those primates to self-recognize. There have been tests done to pin point where exactly in the line of ancestry this occurred, and any primate species that evolved past this point (us plus a few others) are capable of self recognition, but any species that 'branched off' prior to this mutation aren't capable of self recognition.
So, I think it's just a matter of the right mutations occurring, allowing the species to develop some form of intelligence. You look at other species, like the dolphin, who are incredibly intelligent, but not capable of utilizing tools in as a dexterous manner as us, because of thumbs. Because they lack thumbs and the ability to utilize their vocal chords to speak our language, we dismiss them as being intelligent.
 
[–]neutralID [score hidden] 19 minutes ago 
Here's a journal article that describes evolution of cognitive abilities for dolphins:
Connor, Richard C. "Dolphin social intelligence: complex alliance relationships in bottlenose dolphins and a consideration of selective environments for extreme brain size evolution in mammals." Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences 362.1480 (2007): 587-602.
From the article:
All three ‘peaks’ of large brain size evolution in mammals (odontocetes, humans and elephants) shared a common selective environment: extreme mutual dependence based on external threats from predators or conspecific groups. In this context, social competition, and consequently selection for greater cognitive abilities and large brain size, was intense.
So, external threats and social competition could select for greater intelligence. Domesticated cats and dogs are shielded from external threats and typically displaced from their family, so greater cognitive capability may not have enough selection pressure to evolve beyond their current capacity. Other animals in the wild, however, could increase their cognitive ability over time, e.g., orcas' consistently improving learning of cooperative techniques to kill prey. External threats may not just be other animals but also environmental factors like climate change causing ecological destruction of typical food sources.
 
[–]huruma [score hidden] 18 minutes ago 
Given enough time, just about anything you could possibly imagine could happen. Given enough time, cats and dogs could evolve into psychic feathered dragons that squirt 7-Up from magnificent teats onto fields of psychedelic color pulsing chrysanthemums. Infinity is a really long time.
 
[–]Xizz3l [score hidden] 13 minutes ago 
I'm pretty sure that intelligence doesn't make us different from animals, self awareness does
 
[–]helix19 4 points 2 hours ago 
Chimpanzees have entered the Stone Age. Something to consider.
 
[–]dilberito 4 points 1 hour ago 
Possibly, but it would be very, very, very, very, very difficult.
Humans took a path that made us intelligent--but just barely. We had to de-evolve our jaws, which allowed for our brains to expand. Cooking allowed us to weaken our jaws for that. Probably bipedalism and intelligence allowed us to cook. Being apes allowed us to be bipeds. It is our our unique path which enabled our intelligence. Our unique head size and shape relative to our body size enabled our intelligence.
Could something like that happen with a cat? Possibly, but the cat would have to de-evolve many features that it already has. It's already a pretty specialized animal compared to apes. Cats have already chosen a way to live. Cats are already intelligent--albeit in a niche, stalking sort of way.
Apes would be much easier to evolve to human-level intelligence because they're already apes. All you'd have to do is to breed out their testosterone and massively overpowered jaws, and then start breeding for IQ. If you started breeding for IQ right away with a cat, you'd immediately hit a wall. Bears would be another animal that I suspect this might be an interesting thing to experiment with.
 
[–]Knock0nWood [score hidden] 21 minutes ago 
Can't believe I had to scroll down this far to see someone mention that there are physical limitations to intelligence, especially with brain size. Like you said, there are going to be limitations like skull size and dexterity that also have to be developed, and affect a lot of other aspects of the animal.
 
[–]alphamale006 [score hidden] 13 minutes ago 
Yeah what could possibly go wrong with selectively breeding super intelligent bears? Did Colbert teach you nothing?
 
[–]dilberito [score hidden] a minute ago 
Dude, you could play chess with a bear. Just don't you dare win.
 
[–]Nlz90 2 points an hour ago 
I believe that trees evolved to the most intelligent creatures that ever lived. They had supreme technology and could travel the galaxy and do things that we could just dream of. But with the advance of technology came endless wars that endured for millions of years. At the end they got tired of all that and made a decision just to live a simple life. So just then they transformed themselves to the form that we know them today. Just standing growing simple trees with no technology and no intelligences. At the end they had the understanding that simple life is better then intelligent and advance life.
 
[–]Lvl60Lucario[🍰] [score hidden] 2 minutes ago 
r/trees
 
[–]KomatikVengeance 0 points 39 minutes ago 
You on that scientology shit?
 
[–]Nlz90 [score hidden] 27 minutes ago 
No just drugs
 
[–]bignickit 1 point 2 hours ago 
Given an infinite amount of time, an infinite number of things would happen.
So, cats and dogs could evolve higher intelligence just as much humans could evolve claws and a love of squeaky toys.
The issue you would then have is would they still be considered 'cats' and 'dogs' if they were intelligent or would this be a different species?
 
[–]jnd-au 1 point 2 hours ago 
Sort of, but there is also a problem. Imagine if your question was, could cats evolve into fish? Over time, species tend to become more specialised and it can get harder to change into something different. So cats generally become better at being cats, and worse at being fish. It’s not a strict rule, but you get the idea. But if you would the clock back a billion years, there would be a lot more potential for things to change around.
 
[–]TheGermanPhilosopher 1 point 2 hours ago 
If intelligence provides any advantage at all in terms of increasing the breeding opportunities an individual organism enjoys during its lifetime, then given sufficient time it seems like they must.
Note that that advantage might be social - perhaps an intelligent male cat is better at convincing the girly cats to breed with it, or spots opportunities earlier than other males. They don't have to compete with humans or other intelligent animals in that case, only with other cats.
 
[–]goodbyeoperator 1 point 2 hours ago 
Btw any answer that doesn't give an unconditional yes to your question, despite being well thought out and completely true though indirectly related, is not the correct answer. Although the 'given enough time' part muddles the intent of the question a little, the answer is still yes
 
[–]Hexagram195 1 point an hour ago 
I have another question. Has there ever been a species of intelligence similar to ours that has died off?
 
[–]Sieziggy [score hidden] 2 minutes ago 
Closely related hominids, the denisovans and neanderthals rapidly disappeared as homo sapiens were on the rise. There was a lot of cross breeding so in a sense their genome kind of lives on but they as a species are gone.
 
[–]constantino1 1 point an hour ago 
general comment, you need to separate selective breeding from evolution.
You can breed a species to promote existing characteristics. You cannot breed a species to turn into a new species. (it could occur at random, but your selection of mates will not influence anything)
Super simplified, the 2 apes that hooked up to make humans were not necessarily the smartest specimens in the jungle.
 
[–]menderft 1 point an hour ago 
Yes by artificial selection(by humans), not sure by natural selection. It can go either way by natural selection, maybe most retarted strong ones survive or weakest and smartest ones survive.
 
[–]ArMcK 1 point an hour ago 
Dogs are already of similar intelligence to toddlers, except perhaps their inability to recognize themselves in a mirror. Their problem solving skills and understanding of human emotion are about on par.
 
[–]delete_reddit_ 1 point an hour ago 
pre-humans weren't smart apes, they were stupid humans. this is a critical point, so let me say it again: we gained bipedalism, fine-motor-coordination, and our general anatomy BEFORE we got smart. why is this important? because it suggests that a species needs to have a toolbox of useful features capable of taking advantage of intelligence gains before it gets smart.
so the answer is surprisingly no. most species, even given vast amounts of time, will not evolve to be smarter. their anatomy and ecologic niche is basically basically fixed in place through specialization and those toolkits aren't easily improved by marginal gains to intelligence. a slightly smarter horse can't do anything new. even a horse as smart as a human, when placed in a herd in 500,000 BC wouldn't be able to do anything useful enough to have an impact on horse evolution.
the only animals with a chance of gaining human intelligence are ones that have an anatomy that can take advantage of intelligence and are positioned as humans were in a scavenger role that rewards flexibility and innovation. my guess is that the species closest to gaining intelligence if primates didn't exist were probably raccoons and bears.
 
[–]evebrah 1 point an hour ago 
They have been given enough time. Intelligence is more of an anomaly than a guaranteed trait over time.
 
[–]mannyv 1 point an hour ago 
It's possible, but not guaranteed.
If could be that whales, dolphins, etc are as smart as humans, and just aren't really interested in communicating with us. That would be a smart thing to do, on average, as humanity has a tendency to kill or enslave various animal species to serve humanity's varied needs.
Of course, you could argue about what intelligence is. There are plenty of people out there who are as dumb as posts. A smart dog, though, is no match for even the dumbest human.
 
[–]NotTheStatusQuo 1 point an hour ago 
Yes. Traits can and will evolve independently over time. This is called convergent evolution.
 
[–]Turtley13 1 point an hour ago 
How exactly are you defining our intelligence? The ability to master an environment? Most species do that very well. Us not that much. Ability to use tools? Language? I think the only real measure of intelligence would be our ability to comprehend our place in the universe. Or our ability to harness the sun or black holes for energy.
One of the key abilities we have is our ability to shape our physical environment. Which is only possible due to our thumbs. So unless there are a large amount of environmental factors which lead cats or dogs to have thumbs then I doubt it.
 
[–]AndrewCarnage 1 point an hour ago 
Yep. Would they? Maybe.
 
[–]fayettevillainjd 1 point 50 minutes ago 
With an infinite amount of time, anything that is not physically impossible (i.e. anything that has even the slightest of slight chances) will occur eventually occur.
 
[–]thisisboring [score hidden] 4 minutes ago 
I want to chime in just to say that if such creatures evolved, it wouldn't necessarily mean cats or dogs stop existing.
 
[–]raendrop [score hidden] a minute ago 
Do a little research on octopi and crows. Tell me they don't approach human-level intelligence.
As others have said, though, there is no end goal to evolution. If members of a population have a trait that is particularly advantageous to it (meaning they survive long enough to reproduce, and do it significantly better than others in that population), then with enough selective pressure that trait will eventually become dominant enough that we can say that the population has evolved that trait.
The particular type of intelligence that humans have is just another trait.
Another thing to consider is a population can't evolve a trait if there is no potential for it. It is highly unlikely, for example, that humans will ever evolve the ability to see x-rays with our naked eyes, no matter how advantageous that might be to us, because there is nothing in our genetic code that resembles the necessary building blocks to see x-rays with our naked eyes. I'm no biologist, but I'm pretty sure we don't have the building blocks in place that would make such a mutation possible.
 
[–]JuiceBusters 1 point 33 minutes ago 
Ask evolutionists how many other creatures had already developed human level intelligence or greater intelligence and since disappeared. I mean it would seem like it should and could be many. Dino-peoples or maybe 4 legged mammals who once evolved high self-aware IQ and who knows what.
 
[–]MattyOlyOi [score hidden] 24 minutes ago 
It certainly wouldn't be impossible to breed for intelligence the way we've bred for docile and infantile traits for centuries.
And if we introduced some psilocybin into the mix somewhere down the line... the possibilities are pretty vast.
But I think more than anything it's a matter of how much time we're talking about, and the chances that humanity will survive long enough to do something like that are pretty slim.
 
[–]Sardonnicus [score hidden] 18 minutes ago 
Who's to say that our intelligence level is beneficial to our species survival? It is our single greatest ability for survival and at the same time, single biggest threat to our survival.
 
[–]RadioIsMyFriend [score hidden] 16 minutes ago 
Pretty sure this has been answered many times before but no, not currently. What has evolved thus far will remain close to its current state probably forever. Even evolution has its's limits. An entirely new species would have to emerge that evolved almost exactly as we did or a current species would have to go through similar changes like we did and it would only be a guess as to exactly what that was in the first place and if that same change would produce similar effects. There is no way to know whether or not we will have talking cats in the future but most likely any future evolution in cats or dogs will be human engineered.
 
[–]TheAtlanticGuy [score hidden] 9 minutes ago 
Although evolution has absolutely no guarantee of evolving intelligence (that's only one way to survive), it could possibly be done through selective breeding. Problem is, "intelligence" is very hard to quantize. That doesn't stop us from doing it though. There are some very intelligent dogs out there.
 
[–]xediii [score hidden] 8 minutes ago 
I see many comments referring to a mutation which lead to intelligence. We should keep in mind in this discussion that intelligence is a complex genetic trait governed by a large number of genetic variants. So if we play around with the idea that some non-human animal would follow the same path, it would be with selection of multiple genes.
See e.g. http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0112390
 
[–]gluten_free_asbestos [score hidden] 6 minutes ago 
Yes, it's possible that another species could evolve intelligence eventually.
There's an interesting thought experiment that arises from this. Suppose humans were out of the way (maybe we left earth, maybe we're all dead, doesn't really matter). Suppose you have a new species of intelligent animal on earth, and they eventually start to develop tools and technology - it's going to be way, way harder for them to advance technologically.
Why? No more surface level bronze, iron, copper and other metals. We already mined most of the easy to get at stuff, so transitioning from a stone age to a bronze age or other more advanced technological age is just that much harder. Advancing technologically without access to better materials than wood and stone is really, really hard. We even used up lots of the good clay deposits, so even pottery will be a pain in the ass for them to develop.
We've also used up all the easy to get to coal, and most of the easy to get to oil, and even most of the peat. So even if you assuming they find our abandoned cities and successfully start mining them (while still in the equivalent of their stone age), they don't have any high density fuels to burn, so anything approaching our industrial revolution will also basically be impossible. They'd probably never get a chance to even discover oil, since all the easy to access stuff is long, long gone. (Even if they come along a few billion years from now, most of the coal and oil was the result of very specific conditions that aren't likely to happen again.)
So even if they came along, and even if they were smarter than us, they might end up stuck in their equivalent of the stone age indefinitely.
 
[–]Ilyak1986 [score hidden] 5 minutes ago 
Well, maybe if we cross-bred genes of cats and females and then got catgirls, maybe that'd qualify =P.
Seriously, who doesn't like catgirls ?XD
 
[–]woman_president [score hidden] 3 minutes ago 
I've thought about this before, it gave me an idea for a sci-fi script about the earth and it's surrounding planets in the distant future, various species from the Earth have developed intelligence and their species backgrounds play into their culture and attitudes.
 
[–]Deez_nutzes 1 point 2 hours ago 
Cats and dogs aren't the product of evolution, but if selective breeding in which humans decide which individuals mate with which and also which traits are desirable and to be bred for. Since humans want obedient and cute pets, not necessarily intelligent pets, I don't think it likely for a long a sustained effort to breed smart and self aware dog and cats to take hold. (And imagine the moral implications if it did. Would you feel good telling a sentient being to "sit and stay?")
 
[–]MattyOlyOi 1 point an hour ago 
I mean, dogs and cats are already sentient, don'cha know.
Also, I don't think there's a distinction between selective breeding and evolution, aside from one is natural and one is man-made.
The difference between the two I think is something creationists put forward so they can deny the existence of evolution without having to deny the existence of dogs.
 
[–]Loki-L 1 point 5 hours ago 
It depends on your definition of enough time and for that matter cat and dog.
Evolution is mostly random and there is no guarantee that if you wait some organism will evolve a specific trait unless you specifically breed for that.
Given enough time even a random walk will end up at a determined point though sheer dumb luck, but it seems that in this context enough time may be an astronomical large value. Earth has only about 600 to 800 million years of multicellular life left. this probably won't be enough.
 
[–]FuckYourAcronyms 1 point 2 hours ago 
Mutation might be but the real driver of evolution is natural selection which isn't.
 
[–]Mughi 1 point 3 hours ago* 
I would imagine that it's possible. It happened with humans, after all. But the time involved is so astronomically long that a) you'd be long dead by the time it happened, and b) the species involved would no longer be recognizable as what you are thinking of as "cat" or "dog," any more than humans resemble (more than in the vaguest, most superficial way) our mammalian, cat-or dog-like animal ancestors.
edit: i r gud at splellingn
 
[–]pavetheatmosphere[🍰] 1 point 2 hours ago 
They could, but there's no reason to think that they would.
We humans are not the pinnacle of evolution. We're just what one primate is like at one point.
The animal kingdom isn't necessarily selecting for higher intelligence just like it isn't necessarily selecting the amazing camouflage of the octopus, or the incredible bite strength of the hyena. Natural selection is driven by offspring, and being incrementally more intelligent might not help the propogation of a blue jay, or a moth, or an eel.
A strange thought is that, given millions of years, humans could become a less intelligent species rather than more. In a few hundred million years, our direct ancestors could me more like mice, or elephants, or flying fish.
There's no predicting it.
 
[–]instantpowdy 2 points an hour ago 
happy cakeday. i had mine some time ago and everybody forgot. so i dont want this to happen to other people.
:(
 
[–]pavetheatmosphere[🍰] 1 point an hour ago 
Thanks!
 
[–]damnednotdead 1 point 1 hour ago 
Our direct ancestors, hundreds of millions of years in the future you say? We're going to evolve to fill an environmental niche in the very cracks of the fabric of time!
 
[–]pavetheatmosphere[🍰] 1 point 1 hour ago 
I don't understand what you mean
 
[–]Trick9 1 point 1 hour ago 
They have already ascended past us. We feed them. We clean up after them. And what the fuck do they do for us? Provide companionship.... I guess that's a good trade off.
 
[–]Dubmood 1 point 37 minutes ago 
My lord doesn't provide any companionship at all. He is mostly annoyed by the companionship I try to offer.
 
[–]Rushdoony4ever 0 points 2 hours ago 
if the environment selected intelligence as a trait.
there is no higher or lower evolution. jellyfish are quite successful and they ain't got no smarts.
 
[–]Deaf_Mutes 0 points an hour ago 
No. If it did happen, the evolutionary new cats would be a new species. Cats would still be cats with different breeds, but ultra intelligent cats with probably a new area of brain mass, would be allowing them to be a different species.
 
[–]marsattacks 1 point an hour ago 
Oh well as long as it's furry like a cat and meows like a cat.
 
[–]Rattler5150 0 points an hour ago 
There are creatures on earth that have been here far earlier than man. Whales, Crocodiles/Aligators, Sharks, horseshoe crabs, Jellyfish just for example. None of them go around building cities or solving complex mathematics.
 
[–]Tiny_truster 0 points 43 minutes ago 
Eh, they've had the same amount of time as our lineage. They just specialized in other areas. Carnivorans will probably continue to specialize in similar ways because it works for them and has for millions of years. Cs get degrees and 'good enough' still passes on genes.
 
[–]JeanValjean197o 0 points 33 minutes ago 
No.
Currently, dogs are bred for cuteness and or utility, but not necessarily intelligence.
"Evolution" requires that those members of the species that are inadequate be weeded out of the genepool. Since any dog that is cute and can do tricks and or is pure bred is likely to be bred for those traits it's unlikely that they would evolve further.
 
[–]shroomeds 0 points 32 minutes ago 
Nope. They don't need to. They already are doing well enough reproducing and passing on their genes.
 
[–]do_0b [score hidden] 26 minutes ago 
Not sure how to answer on this, as I'm certain I've known dogs that are already more intelligent than some of the humans I have also known. By what criteria is the intelligence being measured in this question? Academic achievement?
 
[–]Jokesonyounow -4 points 56 minutes ago 
Not really. What, you think humans are the highest on the intelligence ladder. Have a look at ants and bees. You'll be amazed. The intelligence they possess is far more than most Americans.
 
[–]MetalOcelot -1 points 2 hours ago 
I can't see it happening. I am not super knowledgeable about this but I think we may be limiting the intellectual evolution of house pets. So much of human intelligence is taught from generation to generation and when someone isn't raised with this nurturing we have situations like feral children where the human has a severely limited mental capacity. I think with the way we adopt pets at a young age we are actually limiting them, at least to some extent. They are pretty much just natural instincts and behaviors we selectively bread into them and they don't really have the opportunity to learn from others in a community. Not to say what we are doing is wrong. They are pets and I don't think the goal was ever to raise them to our level.
 
[–]Jack21222 1 point an hour ago 
I am not super knowledgeable about this but I think we may be limiting the intellectual evolution of house pets.
He said "given enough time."
Given enough time, humans won't exist, and your argument against it is rendered meaningless.
 
[–]marsattacks 1 point an hour ago 
Another limiting factor is that in humans, the size of the birth canal limits the size of our brains.
 
[–]-sdegutis- -4 points 32 minutes ago 
No. Animals have souls, but they are not rational souls. Their intelligence is limited to what their natural instincts require of them. But they can never understand in the same way we do. We can comprehend complex subjects like eternity and self, because we have rational souls. Similarly, when animals die, their souls die with the body. Whereas when humans die, our souls continue to live forever, since we were created in the image and likeness of God. So immortality and rational understanding are the two ways we differ from animals.