Robert Norman "Bob" Ross (October 29, 1942 – July 4, 1995) was an American painter, art instructor, and television host. He was best known as the creator and host of The Joy of Painting, a television program that aired on PBS in the United States, and was also aired in Canada, Mexico and countries in Europe.

Contents  [hide] 
1	Early life
2	Military career
3	Career as a painter
3.1	Technique, style, and influences
3.2	Other media appearances
4	Personal life
5	Illness and death
6	Influence and legacy
7	References
8	Further reading
9	External links
Early life[edit]
Ross was born in Daytona Beach, Florida, and raised in Orlando, Florida.[1] He had a half-brother, Jim, whom he mentioned in passing on his show.[2] While working as a carpenter with his father, Ross lost part of his left index finger; it did not affect the way he held his palette while painting.[3]:22

Military career[edit]
Ross enlisted in the United States Air Force at age 18 and went on to serve as a medical records technician.[3]:15 He eventually rose to the rank of master sergeant and served as the first sergeant of the U.S. Air Force Clinic at Eielson Air Force Base in Alaska.[4][5] In Alaska, Ross first saw the snow and mountains that later became recurring themes in his artwork. He developed his quick-painting technique to create art for sale in brief daily work breaks.[6] Having held military positions that required him to be, in his own words, "mean" and "tough", "the guy who makes you scrub the latrine, the guy who makes you make your bed, the guy who screams at you for being late to work", Ross decided that if he ever moved on from the military, he would never scream again.[5]

Career as a painter[edit]
During Ross's stay in Alaska, he was working as a bartender part-time when he discovered a TV show called The Magic World of Oil Painting, hosted by a German painter named Bill Alexander.[3]:17-18 After studying with Alexander, Ross discovered that he was soon able to earn more from selling his work than from his Air Force position. Ross then retired from the Air Force after 20 years of service with the rank of Master Sergeant[5] and became famous worldwide for hosting The Joy of Painting.[7]

Before the show launched, Ross would try to promote the painting technique but met with little interest. He also had to find a way to cut back on spending, so he decided to have his hair permed, just so he could save money on haircuts. The perm hairstyle was not comfortable for Ross, but ultimately became an iconic feature of his image.[3]:19

The show had its first run from January 11, 1983, to May 17, 1994, but still continues to appear in reruns in many broadcast areas and countries, including the PBS oriented Create. During each half-hour segment, Ross would instruct viewers in oil painting using a quick-study technique that used a limited palette of paints in each work and broke down the process into simple steps. Art critic Mira Schor compared him to Fred Rogers, another PBS television host, noting that the softness of Ross's voice and the slow pace of his speech were similar.[8]

Ross later founded his own successful line of art supplies and how-to books, and also offered painting classes taught by instructors trained in the "Bob Ross method", building a $15 million business.[9] In a 1990 interview, Ross mentioned that all his paintings were donated to PBS stations and that his earnings came instead from sales of his 20 books and 100 videotapes (the total to that date), as well as profits from some 150 Bob Ross–trained teachers and a line of art materials sold through a national supplier.[6] Ross also talked about the donated paintings on the show Towering Glacier (#2341), on which he said that they were to help the stations out.[10]

Ross also filmed wildlife footage, squirrels in particular, usually from his own garden. Small animals often appeared on his show, even during some of his trickier works, as he would often take in injured or abandoned squirrels and other assorted wildlife and look after them.[6]

Technique, style, and influences[edit]
Ross used the wet-on-wet oil painting technique, in which the painter continues adding paint on top of still-wet paint rather than waiting a lengthy amount of time to allow each layer of paint to dry. From the beginning, the program kept the selection of tools and colors simple so that viewers wouldn't have to make large investments in expensive equipment. Ross frequently recommended odorless paint thinner (aka odorless mineral spirits) for brush cleaning. Combining the painting method with the use of one- and two-inch brushes as well as painting knives allowed Ross to paint trees, water, clouds, and mountains in a matter of seconds. Each painting would start with simple strokes that appeared to be nothing more than colored smudges. As he added more and more strokes, the blotches transformed into intricate landscapes.[11][9] Ross dedicated the first episode of the second season of The Joy of Painting to William Alexander, explaining that "years ago, Bill taught me this fantastic [wet-on-wet] technique, and I feel as though he gave me a precious gift, and I'd like to share that gift with you [the viewer]".[12]


Statistical analysis of the content of Ross' paintings from The Joy of Painting, published in 2014 by the blog FiveThirtyEight.
Ross noted that the landscapes he painted—typically mountains, lakes, snow, and log cabin scenes—were strongly influenced by his years living in Alaska, where he was stationed for the majority of his Air Force career. He repeatedly stated on the show his belief that everyone had inherent artistic talent and could become an accomplished artist given time, practice, and encouragement, and to this end was often fond of saying, "We don't make mistakes; we just have happy accidents."[13] In 2014 the blog FiveThirtyEight conducted a statistical analysis of the 381 episodes in which Ross painted live, concluding that 91 percent of Ross' paintings from those episodes contain at least one tree, 44 percent include clouds, 39 percent include mountains and 34 percent include mountain lakes. By his own estimation, Ross completed more than 30,000 paintings in his lifetime.[14]

Ross was well known for other catchphrases he used while painting such as "happy little trees".[15] In most episodes of The Joy of Painting, he noted that one of his favorite parts of painting was cleaning the brush, specifically his method of drying off a brush, which he had dipped in odorless thinner, by striking it against the thinner can and easel. He would smile and often laugh aloud as he "beat the devil out of it". He also used a palette that had been lightly sanded down, which was necessary to avoid catching the reflections of strong studio lighting. At the end of each episode, Ross was best known for saying, "so from all of us here, I'd like to wish you happy painting, and God bless, my friend."

When asked about his laid-back approach to painting and calm and contented demeanor, he once commented, "I got a letter from somebody here a while back, and they said, 'Bob, everything in your world seems to be happy.' That's for sure. That's why I paint. It's because I can create the kind of world that I want, and I can make this world as happy as I want it. Shoot, if you want bad stuff, watch the news."[16]

Other media appearances[edit]
Ross was a big fan of country music and in 1987, he was invited on stage by Hank Snow at the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville. The audience gave him a huge ovation and Ross himself was a little nervous at first, but felt better after cracking a joke to the crowd. Snow was also given a private painting lesson by Ross, along with his business partner, Annette Kowalski.[citation needed]

Ross visited New York City to promote his hardcover book, called The Best of the Joy of Painting with Bob Ross,[17] and painting techniques to a studio audience several times. One visit was in 1989 when he appeared on The Joan Rivers Show, another was in 1992 on a live show with hosts Regis Philbin and Kathie Lee Gifford and there was one in 1994, when Phil Donahue, who watched his videos and loved his painting technique, invited him to the show to promote his work. Ross took five audience members to come on stage and do a painting; even Phil himself did a painting and showed it publicly in that episode. Ross at one time got an invitation to appear on Oprah, but declined the offer because Ross wanted to do paintings for the audience, while the show wanted to focus on couples who are in business together, but do not live together.[citation needed]

In the early 1990s, Ross filmed several MTV promotional spots that according to the American City Business Journals, "dovetailed perfectly with Generation X's burgeoning obsession with all things ironic and retro."[18]

Personal life[edit]
Ross had two sons, Bob and Steven, with his first wife, Lynda Brown. Steven occasionally appeared on The Joy of Painting and became a Ross-certified instructor.[7] The last episode of Season 1 was a question-and-answer forum in which Steven read a series of general "how-to" questions sent in by viewers during the season, and Bob answered them one at a time, technique by technique, until he had completed an entire painting. Ross and Brown's marriage ended in divorce in 1981.

Ross and his second wife, Jane, had one son, Morgan, who is also an accomplished painter.[7] In 1993, Jane died from cancer, and Ross did not remarry.

Illness and death[edit]
Ross was diagnosed with lymphoma in the early 1990s, which eventually forced his retirement after The Joy of Painting's final episode aired on May 17, 1994. He died at the age of 52 on July 4, 1995.[19][7] His remains are interred at Woodlawn Memorial Park in Gotha, Florida.[20]

Influence and legacy[edit]
A character based on Ross was featured in the first season of The Boondocks in an episode titled "Riley Wuz Here".[21]

Google celebrated the 70th anniversary of his birth with a Google Doodle on October 29, 2012. It portrayed Ross painting a depiction of the letter "g" with a landscape in the background.[22][23]

As part of the launch of Twitch Creative, Twitch.tv hosted a nine-day marathon of Bob Ross' The Joy of Painting series which started on October 29, 2015 in commemoration of what would have been his 73rd birthday.[24][25][26] Twitch reported that 5.6 million viewers watched the marathon, and due to its popularity, created a weekly rebroadcast of all 31 seasons of The Joy of Painting to air on Twitch each Monday, and will have a marathon of episodes each October 29th. A portion of the advertising revenue has been promised to charities, including St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.[27]